<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>CHRISTINE</title>
    <meta name="DC.Title" content="CHRISTINE"/>
    <meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/><link href="../stylesheet.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><style type="text/css">
		@page { margin-bottom: 5.000000pt; margin-top: 5.000000pt; }</style></head>
  <body class="calibre2">
<p class="calibre3">developing space between two childhood friends. I could see a certain logic to it, even down 
to my 
fixation on Christine, the wedge that had come between us, 
It ignored the hard facts, but it was comfortable. To believe such a thing would allow Leigh 
and me to pursue our ordinary lives - to get involved in school activities, to do a little extra 
cramming for the Scholastic Achievement Tests in March, and, of course, to jump into each 
other's arms as soon as her parents or mine left the room. To neck like what we were, which 
was a couple of horny teenagers totally infatuated with each other. 
Those things lulled me . . . lulled us both. We had been careful - as careful, in fact, as 
adulterers instead of a couple of kids - but today the cast had come off, today I had been able 
to use the keys to my Duster again instead of just looking at them, and on an impulse I had 
called Leigh up and asked her if she'd like to go out to the world-famous Colonel's with me 
for a little of his world-famous Crunchy Style. She had been delighted. 
So maybe you see how our attention waned, how we became the smallest bit indiscreet. We 
sat in the parking lot, the Duster's engine running so we could have some heat, and we talked 
about putting an end to that old and infinitely clever she-monster like a couple of children 
playing cowboys. 
Neither of us saw Christine when she pulled up behind us. 
* * * * * 
'He's buckling down for a long siege, if that's what it takes,' I said. 
'What?' 
'The colleges he applied to. Hasn't it hit you yet?' 
'I guess not,' she said, mystified. 
'They're the schools you're most interested in,' I said patiently. 
She looked at me. I looked back, trying to smile, not making it. 
'All right,' I said. 'Let's go over it one more time. Molotov cocktails are out. Dynamite looks 
risky, but in a pinch - ' 
Leigh's harsh gasp stopped me right there - that, and the expression of startled horror on her 
face. She was staring out through the windscreen, eyes wide, mouth open. I turned in that 
direction, and what I saw was so stunning that for a moment I was immobilized too. 
Arnie was standing in front of my Duster. 
He had parked directly behind us and gone in to get his chicken without realizing who it 
was, and why should he? It was nearly dark, and one splashed and muddy four-year-old 
Duster looks pretty much like another. He had gone in, had gotten his chow, had come out</p>
      <p class="calibre3">again . . . and stared right in through the windscreen at Leigh and me, sitting close together, 
our arms around each other, looking deep into each other's eyes, as the poets say. Nothing but 
a coincidence - a grisly, hideous coincidence. Except that even now a part of my mind is 
coldly convinced that it was Christine that even at that turn, Christine led him there. 
There was a long, frozen moment. A little moan escaped Leigh's throat. Arnie stood not 
quite halfway across the small parking lot, dressed in his high school jacket, faded jeans, 
boots. A plaid scarf was tied around his throat. The collar of his jacket was turned up, and its 
black wings framed a face that was slowly twisting from an expression of sick incredulity 
into a pallid grimace of hate, The red-and-white-striped bag with the Colonel's smiling face 
on it slipped out of one of his gloved hands and thumped onto the packed snow of the parking 
lot. 
'Dennis,' Leigh whispered. 'Dennis, oh my God.' 
He began to run. I thought he was coming to the car, probably to haul me out and work me 
over. I could see myself hopping feebly around on my not-so-good good leg under the 
parking-lot lights that had just come on while Arnie, whose life I had saved all those years 
going back to kindergarten, beat the living Jesus out of me. He ran, his mouth twisted down 
in a snarl I had seen before - but not on his face. It was LeBay's face now. 
He didn't stop at my car; instead he ran right past. I twisted around, and that was when I 
saw Christine. 
I got my door open and began to struggle out, grabbing onto the roof gutter for support. The 
cold numbed my fingers almost at once. 
'Dennis, no!' Leigh cried. 
I got on my feet just as Arnie raked open Christine's door. 
'Arnie!' I shouted. 'Hey, man!' 
His head jerked up. His eyes were wide and blank and glaring. A line of spittle was 
working its way down from one corner of his mouth. Christine's grille seemed to be snarling 
too. 
He raised both fists and shook them at me. 'You shitter!' His voice was high and cracked. 
'Have her! You deserve her! She's shit! You're both shit! Have each other! You won't for 
long!' 
People had come to the plate-glass windows of the Kentucky Fried Chicken and the 
neighbouring Kowloon Express to see what was going on, 
'Arnie! Let's talk, man - ' 
He jumped in the car and slammed her door. Christine's engine screamed and her headlights 
came on, the glaring white eyes of my dream, pinning me like a bug on a card. And over</p>
      <p class="calibre3">them, behind the glass, was Arnie's terrible face, the face of a devil sick of sin. That face, 
both hateful and haunted, has lived in my dreams ever since. Then the face was gone. It was 
replaced by a skull, a grinning death's head. 
Leigh uttered a high, piercing scream. She had turned around to look, so I knew that it 
wasn't just my imagination. She had seen it too. 
Christine roared forward, her rear tyres spinning snow back. She didn't come for the Duster, 
but for me. I think his intention was to grind me to jelly between his car and mine. It was only 
my bad left leg that saved me; it buckled and I fell back inside my Duster, bumping my right 
hip on the wheel and honking the horn. 
A cold wave of wind buffeted my face. Christine's bright red flank passed within three feet 
of me. She roared down the take-out joint's IN drive and shot onto JFK Drive without 
slowing, rear end fishtailing. Then she was gone, still accelerating. 
I looked at the snow and could see the fresh zig-zag treads of her tyres. She had missed my 
open door by no more than three inches. 
Leigh was crying. I pulled my left leg into the car with my hands, slammed the door, and 
held her. Her arms groped for me blindly and then grasped with panicky tightness. 'It . . . it 
wasn't . . .' 
'Shhh, Leigh. Never mind. Don't think about it.' 
'That wasn't Arnie driving that car! It was a dead person! It was a dead person!' 
'It was LeBay,' I said, and now that it had happened, I felt a kind of eerie calm instead of 
the trembly, close-call reaction I should have had - that and the guilt of finally being 
discovered with my best friend's girl. 'It was him, Leigh. You just met Roland D. LeBay.' 
She wept, crying out her fear and shock and horror, holding onto me. I was glad to have 
her. My left leg throbbed dully. I looked up into the rearview mirror at the empty slot where 
Christine had been. Now that it had happened, it seemed to me that any other conclusion 
would have been impossible. The peace of the last two weeks, the simple joy of having Leigh 
on my side, all of that now seemed to be the unnatural thing, the false thing - as false as the 
phoney war between Hitier's conquest of Poland and the Wehrmacht's rolling assault on 
France. 
And I began to see the end of things, how it would be. 
She looked up at me, her checks wet. 'What now, Dennis? What do we do now?' 
'Now we end it.' 
'How? What do you mean?'</p>
      <p class="calibre3">Speaking more to myself than to her, I said, 'He needs an alibi. We have to be ready when 
he goes away. The garage. Darnell's. I'm going to trap it in there. Try to kill it.' 'Dennis, what 
are you talking about?' 
'He'll leave town,' I said. 'Don't you see? All of the people Christine has killed - they make a 
ring around Arnie. He'll know that. He'll get Arnie out of town again.' 
LeBay, you mean. 
I nodded, and Leigh shuddered. 
'We have to kill it. You know that.' 
'But how? Please, Dennis . . . how are we going to do it?' 
And at last I had an idea.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">48   PREPARATIONS 
 
There's a killer on the road,                                                                                                            
His brain is squirming like a toad . . . 
                               — The Doors 
 
I dropped Leigh off at her house and told her to call me if she saw Christine cruising 
around. 
'What are you going to do? Come over here with a flame-thrower?' 
'A bazooka,' I said, and we both started to laugh hysterically. 
'Nuke the '58! Nuke the '58!' Leigh yelled, and we got laughing again - but all the time we 
were laughing we were scared half out of our minds . . . maybe more than half. And all the 
time we were laughing I was sick over Arnie, both over what he had seen and what I had 
done. And I think Leigh felt the same. It's just that sometimes you have to laugh. Sometimes 
you just do. And when it comes, nothing can keep that laugh away. It just walks in and does 
its stuff. 
'So what do I tell my folks?' she asked me when we finally started to come down a little. 
'I've got to tell them something, Dennis! I can't just let them risk being run down in the 
street!' 
'Nothing,' I said. 'Tell them nothing at all.' 
'But - ' 
'For one thing, they wouldn't believe you. For another, nothing's going to happen as long as 
Arnie's in Libertyville. I'd stake my life on that.' 
'You are, dummy,' she whispered. 
'I know. My life, my mother's, my father's, my sister's.' 
'How will we know if he leaves?' 
'I'll take care of that. You're going to be sick tomorrow. You're not going to school.' 
'I'm sick right now,' she said in a low voice. 'Dennis, what's going to happen? What are you 
planning?' 
'I'll call you later tonight,' I said, and kissed her. Her lips were cold. 
* * * * *</p>
      <p class="calibre3">When I got home, Elaine was struggling into her parka and muttering black imprecations at 
people who sent other people down to Tom's for milk and bread just when Dance Fever was 
coming on TV. She was prepared to be grumpy at me as well, but she cheered up when I 
offered to give her a lift down to the market and back. She also gave me a suspicious look, as 
if this unexpected kindness to the little sister might be the onset of some disease. Herpes, 
maybe. She asked me if I felt all right. I only smiled blandly and told her to hop in before I 
changed my mind, although by now my right leg was aching and my left was throbbing 
fiercely. I could talk on and on to Leigh about how Christine wouldn't roll as long as Arnie 
was in Libertyville, and intellectually I knew that was right . . . but it didn't change the 
instinctive rolling in my guts when I thought of Ellie walking the two blocks to Tom's and 
crossing the dark suburban sidestreets in her bright yellow parka. I kept seeing Christine 
parked down one of those streets, crouched in the dark like an old bitch hunting dog. 
When we got to Tom's, I gave her a buck. 'Get us each a Yodel and a Coke,' I said. 
'Dennis, are you feeling all right?' 
'Yes. And if you put my change in that Asteroids game, I'll break your arm.' 
That seemed to set her mind at rest. She went in, and I sat slumped behind the wheel of my 
Duster, thinking about what a terrible box we were in. We couldn't talk to anyone - that was 
the nightmare. That was where Christine was so strong. Was I going to grab my dad down in 
his toy-shop and tell him that what Ellie called 'Arnie Cunningham's pukey old red car' was 
now driving itself? Was I going to call the cops and tell them that a dead guy wanted to kill 
my girlfriend and myself? No. The only thing on our side, other than the fact that the car 
couldn't move until Arnie had an alibi, was the fact that it would want no witnesses - 
Moochie Welch, Don Vandenberg and Will Darnell had been killed alone, late at night; 
Buddy Repperton and his two friends had been killed out in the boonies. 
Elaine came back with a bag clutched to her budding bosom, got in, gave me my Coke and 
my Yodel. 
'Change,' I said. 
'You're such a boogersnot,' she said, but put some twenty-odd cents in my outstretched 
hand. 
'I know, but I love you anyway,' I said. I pushed her hood back, ruffled her hair, and then 
kissed her ear. She looked surprised and suspicious - and then she smiled. She wasn't such a 
bad sort, my sister Ellie. The thought of her being run down in the street simply because I fell 
in love with Leigh Cabot after Arnie went mad and left her . . . I simply wasn't going to let 
that happen. 
* * * * * 
At home, I worked my way upstairs after saying hi to my mom. She wanted to know how 
the leg was doing, and I told her it was in good shape. But when I got upstairs, I made the</p>
      <p class="calibre3">bathroom medicine cabinet my first stop. I swallowed a couple of aspirin for the sake of my 
legs, which were now singing Ave Maria. Then I went down to my folks' bedroom, where the 
upstairs phone is, and sat down in Mom's rocking chair with a sigh. 
I picked up the phone and made the first of my calls. 
'Dennis Guilder, scourge of the turnpike extension project!' Brad Jeffries said heartily. 
'Good to hear from you, kiddo. When you gonna come over and watch the Penguins with me 
again?' 
'I dunno,' I said. 'I get tired of watching handicapped people play hockey after a while. Now 
if you got interested in a good team, like the Flyers - ' 
'Christ, have I got to listen to this from a kid that isn't even mine?' Brad asked. 'The world 
really is going to hell, I guess.' 
We chatted for a while longer, just kicking things back and forth, and then I told him why I 
had called. 
He laughed. 'What the fuck, Denny? You goin into business for yourself?' 
'You might say so.' I thought of Christine. 'For a limited time only.' 
'Don't want to talk about it?' 
'Well, not just yet. Do you know someone who might have an item like that for rent?' 
'I'll tell you, Dennis. There's only one guy I know who might do business with you on 
anything like that. Johnny Pomberton. Lives out on the Ridge Road. He's got more rolling 
stock than Carter's got liver pills.' 
'Okay,' I said. 'Thanks, Brad,' 
'How's Arnie?' 
'All right, I guess. I don't see as much of him as I used to.' 
'Funny guy, Dennis. I never in my wildest dreams thought he'd last out the summer the first 
time I set eyes on him. But he had one hell of a lot of determination.' 
'Yeah,' I said. 'All of that and then some.' 
'Say hi to him when you see him.' 
'I'll do it, Brad. Stay loose.' 
'Can't live if you do anything else, Denny. Come an over some night and peel a few cans 
with me.' 
'I will. Good night.'</p>
      <p class="calibre3">'Night.' 
I hung up and then hesitated over the phone for a minute or two, not really wanting to make 
this next call. But it had to be done; it was central to the whole sorry, stupid business. I 
picked the telephone up and dialled the Cunninghams' number from memory. If Arnie 
answered, I would simply hang up without speaking. But my luck was in; it was Michael who 
answered. 
'Hello?' His voice sounded tired and a bit slurred. 
'Michael, this is Dennis.' 
'Hey, hi!' He sounded genuinely pleased. 
'Is Arnie there?' 
'Upstairs. He came home from somewhere and went right to his room. He looked pretty 
thundery, but that's far from unusual these days. Want me to call him?' 
'No,' I said. 'That's okay. It was really you I wanted to talk to, anyhow. I need a favour.' 
'Well, sure. Name it.' I realized what that slur in his voice was - Michael Cunningham was 
at least halfway snookered. 'You did us a helluva favour, talking some sense to him about 
college.' 
'Michael, I don't think he listened to a thing I said.' 
'Well, something sure happened. He's applied to three schools just this month. Regina 
thinks you walk on water, Dennis. And just between me and thee, she's pretty ashamed of the 
way she treated you when Arnie first told us about his car. But you know Regina. She's never 
been able to say “I'm sorry”.' 
I knew that, all right. And what Regina would think, I wondered, if she knew that Arnie - or 
whatever controlled Arnie - didn't have any more interest in college than a hog has in mutual 
funds? That he was simply following Leigh's tracks, hounding her, fixated on her? It was 
perversion on perversion - LeBay, Leigh, and Christine in some hideous menage а trois. 
'Listen, Michael,' I said. 'I'd like you to call me if Arnie decides to go out of town for some 
reason. Especially in the next day or two, or over the weekend. Day or night. I have to know 
if Arnie's going to leave Libertyville. And I have to know before he leaves. It's very 
important.' 
'Why?' 
'I'd just as soon not go into that. It's complicated, and it would . . . well, it would sound 
crazy.' 
There was a long, long silence, and when Arnie's dad spoke again, his voice was a near-
whisper. 'It's that goddam car of his, isn't it?'</p>
      <p class="calibre3">How much did he suspect? How much did he know? If he was like most people I knew, he 
probably suspected a little more drunk than sober. How much? Even now I don't know for 
sure. But what I believe is that he suspected more than anyone - except maybe Will Darnell. 
'Yeah,' I said. 'It's the car.' 
'I knew it,' he said dully. 'I knew. What's happening, Dennis? How is he doing it? Do you 
know?' 
'Michael, I can't say any more. Will you tell me if he plans a trip tomorrow or the next day?' 
'Yes,' he said. 'Yes, all right.' 
'Thanks.' 
'Dennis,' he said. 'Do you think I'll ever have my son back?' 
He deserved the truth. That poor, devilled man deserved the truth. 'I don't know,' I said, and 
bit at my lower lip until it hurt. 'I think . . . that it may have gone too far for that.' 
'Dennis,' he almost wailed, 'what is it? Drugs? Some kind of drugs?' 
'I'll tell you when I can,' I said. 'That's all I can promise you. I'm sorry. I'll tell you when I 
can.' 
* * * * * 
Johnny Pomberton was easier to talk to. 
He was a lively, garrulous man, and any fears I'd had that he wouldn't do business with a 
kid soon went by the board. I got the feeling that Johnny Pomberton would have done 
business with Satan freshly risen from hell with the smell of brimstone still on him, if he had 
good old legal tender. 
'Sure,' he kept saying. 'Sure, sure.' You'd no more than started some proposition before 
Johnny Pomberton was agreeing with you. It was a little unnerving. I had a cover story, but I 
don't think he even listened to it. He simply quoted me a price - a very reasonable one, as it 
turned out. 
'That sounds fine,' I said. 
'Sure,' he agreed. 'What time, you coming by?' 
'Well, how would nine-thirty tomorrow m -  ' 
'Sure,' he said. 'See you then.' 
'One other question, Mr Pomberton., 
'Sure. And make it Johnny.'</p>
      <p class="calibre3">'Okay, Johnny, then. What about automatic transmission?' 
Johnny Pemberton laughed heartily - so heartily that I held the phone away from my ear a 
bit, feeling glum. That laugh was answer enough. 
'On one of these babies? You got to be kidding. Why? Can't you run a manual shift?' 
'Yes, that's what I learned on,' I said. 
'Sure! So you got no problems, right?' 
'I guess not,' I said, thinking of my left leg, which would be running the clutch - or trying 
to. Simply shifting it around a little tonight had made it ache like hell, I hoped that Arnie 
would wait a few days before taking his trip out of town, but somehow I didn't think that was 
on the cards. It would be tomorrow, over the weekend at the latest, and my left leg would 
simply have to bear up as best it could. 'Well, good night, Mr Pomberton. I'll see you 
tomorrow.' 
'Sure. Thanks for calling, kid. I got one all picked out in my mind for you. You'll like her, 
see if you don't. And if you don't start calling me Johnny, I'm gonna double the price.' 
'Sure,' I said, and hung up on his laughter. 
You'll like her. See if you don't. 
Her again - I was becoming morbidly aware of that casual form of referral . . . and getting 
damned sick of it. 
* * * * * 
Then I made my last preparatory call. There were four Sykeses in the phone book. I got the 
one I wanted on my second try; Jimmy himself answered the phone. I introduced myself as 
Arnie Cunningham's friend, and Jimmy's voice brightened. He liked Arnie, who hardly ever 
teased him and never 'punched on him' as Buddy Repperton had done when Buddy worked 
for Will. He wanted to know how Arnie was, and, lying again, I told him Arnie was fine. 
'Jeez, that's good,' he said. 'He really had his butt in a sling there for a while. I knew them 
fireworks and cigarettes was no good for him.' 
'It's Arnie I'm calling for,' I said. 'You remember when Will got arrested and they shut down 
the garage, Jimmy?' 
'Sure do.' Jimmy sighed. 'Now poor old Will's dead and I'm out of a job. My ma keeps sayin 
I got to go to the vocational-technical school, but I wouldn't be no good at that. I guess I'll go 
for bein a janitor, or somethin like that. My Uncle Fred's a janitor up at the college, and he 
says there's an op-nin, because this other Janitor, he disappeared, just took off or somethin, 
and - '</p>
      <p class="calibre3">'Arnie says when they closed down the garage, he lost his whole socket-wrench kit,' I broke 
in. 'It was up behind some of those old tyres, you know, on the overhead racks. He put them 
up there so no one would rip him off.' 
'Still there?' Jimmy asked. 
'I guess so.' 
'What a bummer!' 
'You know it. That set of boltfuckers was worth a hundred dollars.' 
'Holy crow! I bet they ain't there anymore anyway, though. I bet one of them cops got it.' 
'Arnie thinks they might still be there. But he's not supposed to go near the garage because 
of the trouble he's in.' This was a lie, but I didn't think Jimmy would catch it and he didn't. 
Putting one over on a fellow who was borderline retarded didn't add a thing to my self-
esteem, however. 
'Aw, shit! Well, listen - I'll go down and look for 'em. Yessir! Tomorrow morning, first 
thing. I still got my keys.' 
I breathed a sigh of relief. It wasn't Arnie's mythical set of socket wrenches that I wanted; I 
wanted Jimmy's keys. 
'I'd like to get them, Jimmy, that's the thing. As a surprise. And I know right where he put 
them. You might hunt around all day and still not find them.' 
'Oh, yeah, for sure. I was never no good at finding things, that's what Will said. He always 
said I couldn't find my own bee-hind with both hands and a flashlight.' 
'Aw, man, he was just putting you down. But really - I'd like to do it.' 
'Well, sure.' 
'I thought I'd come by tomorrow and borrow your keys. I could get that set of wrenches and 
have your keys back to you before dark.' 
'Gee, I dunno. Will said to never loan out my keys - ' 
'Sure, before, but the place is empty now except for Arnie's tools and a bunch of junk out 
back. The estate will be putting it up for sale pretty soon, contents complete, and if I take 
them after that, it would like stealing.' 
'Oh! Well, I guess it'd be okay. If you bring my keys back.' And then he said an absurdly 
touching thing: 'See, they're all I got to remember Will by.' 
'It's a promise.' 
'Okay,' he said. 'If it's for Arnie, I guess it's okay.'</p>
      <p class="calibre3">* * * * * 
Just before bed, now downstairs, I made one final call - to a very sleepy-sounding Leigh. 
'One of these next few nights we're going to end it. You game?' 
'Yes,' she said. 'I am. I think I am. What have you got planned, Dennis?' 
So I told her, going through it step by step, half-expecting her to poke a dozen holes in my 
idea. But when I was done, she simply said, 'What if it doesn't work?' 
'You make the honour roll. I don't think you need me to draw you a picture.' 
'No,' she said. 'I guess not.' 
'I'd keep you out of it if I could, I said. 'But LeBay is going to suspect a trap, so the bait has 
to be good.' 
'I wouldn't let you leave me out of it,' she said. Her voice was steady. 'This is my business 
too. I loved him. I really did. And once you start loving someone . . . I don't think you ever 
really get over it completely. Do you, Dennis?' 
I thought of the years. The summers of reading and swimming and playing games: 
Monopoly, Scrabble, Chinese checkers. The ant farms. The times I had kept him from getting 
killed in all the ways kids like to kill the outsider, the one who's a little bit strange, a little bit 
off the beat. There had been times when I had gotten pretty fucking sick of keeping him from 
getting killed, times when I had wondered if my life wouldn't be easier, better, if I simply let 
Arnie go, let him drown. But it wouldn't have been better. I had needed Arnie to make me 
better, and he had. We had traded fair all the way down the line, and oh shit, this was very 
bitter, very fucking bitter indeed. 
'No,' I said, and I suddenly had to put my hand over my eyes. 'I don't think you ever do. I 
loved him too. And maybe it isn't too late for him, even now. That's what I would have 
prayed: Dear God, let me keep Arnie from getting killed just one more time. Just this one last 
time. 
'It's not him I hate,' she said, her voice low. 'It's that man LeBay . . . did we really see that 
thing this afternoon, Dennis? In the car?' 
'Yes,' I said. 'I think we did.' 
'Him and that bitch Christine,' she said. 'Will it be soon?' 
'Soon, yeah. I think so. 
'All right. I love you, Dennis.' 
'I love you too.' 
As it turned out, it ended the next day -  Friday the 19th of January.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">49   ARNIE 
 
I was cruising in my Stingray late one night                                                                                        
When an XKE pulled up on the right,                                                                                                       
He rolled down the window of his shiny new Jag                                                                                 
And challenged me then and there to a drag.                                                                                        
I said 'You're on, buddy, my mill's runnin fine,                                                                                              
Let's come off the line at Sunset and Vine,                                                                         
But I'll go you one better (if you got the nerve):                                                                                    
Let's race all the way . . .                                                                                                                               
to Deadman's Curve.' 
                                           - Jan and Dean 
 
I began that long, terrible day by driving over to Jimmy Sykes's house in my Duster. I had 
expected there might be some trouble from Jimmy's mother, but that turned out to be okay. 
She was, if anything, mentally slower than her son. She invited me in for bacon and eggs (I 
declined - my stomach was tied in miserable knots) and clucked over my crutches while 
Jimmy hunted around in his room for his keyring. I made small-talk with Mrs Sykes, who 
was roughly the size of Mount Etna, while time passed and a dismal certainty rose inside me: 
Jimmy had lost his keys somewhere and the whole thing was off the rails before it could 
really begin. 
He came back shaking his head. 'Can't find em,' he said, 'Jeez, I guess I must have lost em 
somewhere. What a bummer.' 
And Mrs Sykes, nearly three hundred pounds on the hoof in a faded housedress and her hair 
up in puffy pink rollers, said with blessed practicality, 'Did you look in your pockets, Jim?' 
A startled expression crossed Jimmy's face. He rammed a hand into the pocket of his green 
chino workpants. Then, with a shamefaced grin, he pulled out a bunch of keys. They were on 
one of the keyrings they sell at the novelty shop in the Monroeville Mall - a large rubber fried 
egg. The egg was dark with grease. 
'There you are, you little suckers,' he said. 
'You watch your language, young man,' Mrs Sykes said. 'Just show Dennis which key it is 
that opens the door and keep your dirty language in your head.' 
Jimmy ended up handing three Schlage keys over to me, because they weren't labelled and 
he couldn't tell which was which. One of them opened the main overhead door, one opened 
the back overhead door, the one which gave on the long lot of junked cars, and one opened 
the door to Will's office.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">'Thanks,' I said. 'I'll have these back to you just as soon as I can, Jimmy.' 
'Great,' Jimmy said. 'Say hello to Arnie when you see him.' 
'You bet,' I said. 
'You sure you don't want some bacon and eggs, Dennis?' Mrs Sykes asked. 'There's plenty.' 
'Thanks,' I said, 'but I really ought to get going.' It was a quarter past eight; school started at 
nine. Arnie usually pulled in around eight-forty-five, Leigh had told me. I just had time. I got 
my crutches under me and got to my feet. 
'Help him out, Jim,' Mrs Sykes commanded. 'Don't just stand there.' 
I started to protest and she waved me away. 'Wouldn't want you to fall on your can getting 
back to your car, Dennis. Might break your leg all over again.' She laughed uproariously at 
this, and Jimmy, the soul of obedience, practically carried me back to my Duster. 
* * * * * 
The sky that day was a scummy, frowsy grey, and the radio was predicting more snow by 
late afternoon. I drove across town to Libertyville High, took the driveway which led to the 
student parking lot, and parked in the front row. I didn't need Leigh to tell me that Arnie 
usually parked in the back row. I had to see him, had to strew the bait in front of his nose, but 
I wanted him as far from Christine as possible when I did it. Away from the car, LeBay's hold 
seemed weaker. 
I sat with the key turned over to ACCESSORY for the radio and looked at the football field. 
It seemed impossible that I had ever traded sandwiches with Arnie on those snowcovered 
bleachers. Impossible to believe that I had run and cavorted on that field myself, dressed up 
in padding, helmet, and tight pants, stupidly convinced of my own physical invulnerability . . 
. perhaps even of my own immortality. 
I didn't feel that way anymore, if I ever had. 
Students were coming in, parking their cars, and heading for the building, chattering and 
laughing and horsing around. I slouched lower in my seat, not wanting to be recognized. A 
bus pulled up at the doors in the main turnaround and disgorged a load of kids. A small 
cluster of shivering boys and girls gathered out in the smoking area where Buddy had taken 
Arnie on that day last fall. That day also seemed impossibly distant now. 
My heart was thumping in my chest and I was miserably tense. A craven part of me hoped 
that Arnie simply wouldn't show up. And then I saw the familiar white-over-red shape of 
Christine turn in from School Street and cruise up the student drive, moving at a steady 
twenty, blowing a little plume of white exhaust from her pipe. Arnie was behind the wheel, 
wearing his school jacket. He didn't look at me; he simply drove to his accustomed place at 
the back of the lot and parked.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">Just stay slouched down and he won't even see you, that craven, traitorous part of my mind 
whispered. He'll walk right by you, like all the rest of them. 
Instead, I opened my door and fumbled my crutches outside. Leaning my weight on them, I 
yanked myself out and stood there on the packed snow of the parking lot, feeling a little bit 
like Fred MacMurray in that old picture Double Indemnity. From the school came the burring 
of the first bell, made faint and unimportant by distance - Arnie was later than he had been in 
the old days. My mother had said that Arnie was almost disgustingly punctual. Maybe LeBay 
hadn't been. 
He came toward me, books under his arm, head down twisting in and out between the cars. 
He walked behind a van, passing out of my sight temporarily, and then came back into view. 
He looked up then, directly into my eyes. 
Ms own eyes widened, and he made an automatic half-turn back toward Christine. 
'Feel kind of naked when you're not behind the wheel?' I asked. 
He looked back at me. His lips drew slightly downward, as if he bad tasted something of 
unpleasant flavour. 
'How's your cunt, Dennis?' he asked. 
George LeBay hadn't said, but he had at least hinted that his brother was extraordinarily 
good at getting through to people, finding their soft spots. 
I took two shuffling steps forward on my crutches while he stood there, smiling with the 
corners of his mouth down. 
'How did you like it when Repperton called you Cuntface?' I asked him. 'Did you like it so 
well you want to turn it around and use it on somebody else?' 
Part of him seemed to flinch at that - something that was maybe only in his eyes - but the 
contemptuous, watchful smile remained on his lips. It was cold out. I hadn't put on my 
gloves, and my hands, on the crossbars of the crutches, were getting numb. Our breath made 
little plumes. . 'Or what about in the fifth grade, when Tommy Deckinger used to call you 
Fart-Breath?' I asked, my voice rising. Getting angry at him hadn't been part of the game-
plan, but now it was here, shaking inside me. 'Did you like that? And do you remember when 
Ladd Smythe was a patrol-boy and he pushed you down in the street and I pulled his hat off 
and stuffed it down his pants? Where you been, Arnie? This guy LeBay is a Johnny-come-
lately. Me, I was here all along.' 
That flinch again. This time he half-turned away, the smile faltering, his eyes searching for 
Christine the way your eyes might search for a loved one in a crowded terminal or bus-
station. Or the way a junkie might took for his pusher. 
'You need her that bad?' I asked. 'Man, you're hooked right through the fucking bag, aren't 
you?'</p>
      <p class="calibre3">'I don't know what you're talking about,' he said hoarsely. 'You stole my girl. Nothing is 
going to change that. You went behind my back . . . you cheated . . . you're just a shitter, like 
all the rest of them.' He was looking at me now, his eyes wide and hurt and blazing with 
anger. 'I thought I could trust you, and you turned out to be worse than Repperton or any of 
them!' He took a step toward me and cried out in a perfect fury of loss, 'You stole her, you 
shitter!' 
I lurched forward another step on my crutches; one of them slid a little bit in the packed 
snow underfoot. We were like two reluctant gunslingers approaching each other. 
'You can't steal what's been given away,' I said. 
'What are you talking about?' 
'I'm talking about the night she choked in your car. The night Christine tried to kill her. You 
told her you didn't need her. You told her to fuck off.' 
'I never did! That's a lie! That's a goddam lie!' 
'Who am I talking to?' I asked. 
'Never mind!' His grey eyes were huge behind his spectacles. 'Never mind who the fuck 
you're talking to! That's nothing but a dirty lie! No more than I'd expect from that stinking 
bitch!' 
Another step closer. His pale face was marked with flaring red patches of colour. 
'When you write your name, it doesn't look like your signature anymore, Arnie.' 
'You shut up, Dennis.' 
'Your father says it's like having a stranger in the house.' 
'I'm warning you, man.' 
'Why bother?' I asked brutally. 'I know what's going to happen. So does Leigh. The same 
thing that happened to Buddy Repperton and Will Darnell and all the others. Because you're 
not Arnie at all anymore. Are you in there, LeBay? Come on out and let me see you. I've seen 
you before. I saw you on New Year's Eve, I saw you yesterday at the chicken place. I know 
you're in there; why don't you stop fucking around and come out?' 
And he did . . . but in Arnie's face this time, and that was more terrible than all the skulls 
and skeletons and comic-book horrors ever thought of. Arnie's face changed. A sneer 
bloomed on his lips like a rancid rose. And I saw him as he must have been back when the 
world was young and a car was all a young man needed to have; everything else would just 
automatically follow. I saw George LeBay's big brother. 
I only remember one thing about him, but I remember that one thing very well His anger. 
He was always angry.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">He came toward me, closing the distance between where he had been and where I stood 
propped on my crutches. His eyes were filmy and beyond all reach. That sneer was stamped 
on his face like the mark of a branding-iron. 
I had time to think of the scar on George LeBay's forearm, skidding from his elbow to his 
wrist. He pushed me and then he came back and threw me. I could hear that fourteen-year-old 
LeBay shouting, You stay out of my way from now on, you goddam snotnose, stay out of my 
way, you hear? 
It was LeBay I was facing now, and he was not a man who took losing easily. Check that: 
he didn't take losing at all. 
'Fight him, Arnie,' I said. 'He's had his own way too long. Fight him, kill him, make him 
stay d - ' 
He swung his foot and kicked my right crutch out from under me. I struggled to stay up, 
tottered, almost made it . . . and then he kicked the left crutch away. I fell down on the cold 
packed snow. He took another step and stood above me, his face hard and alien. 
'You got it coming, and you're going to get it,' he said remotely. 
'Yeah, right,' I gasped. 'You remember the ant farms, Arnie? Are you in there someplace? 
This dirty sucker never had a fucking ant farm in his life. He never had a friend in his life.' 
And suddenly the calm hardness broke. His face - his face roiled. I don't know how else to 
describe it. LeBay was there, furious at having to put down a kind of internal mutiny. Then 
Arnie was there - drawn, tired, ashamed, but, most of all, desperately unhappy. Then LeBay 
again, and his foot drew back to kick me as I lay on the snow groping for my crutches and 
feeling helpless and useless and dumb. Then it was Arnie again, my friend Arnie, brushing 
his hair back off his forehead in that familiar, distracted gesture; it was Arnie saying, 'Oh, 
Dennis . . . Dennis . . . I'm sorry. . . I'm so sorry.' 
'It's too late for sorry, man,' I said. 
I got one crutch and then the other. 1 pulled myself up little by little, slipping twice before I 
could get the crutches under me again. Now my hands felt like pieces of furniture. Arnie 
made no move to help me; he stood with his back against the van, his eyes wide and shocked. 
'Dennis, I can't help it,' he whispered. 'Sometimes I feel like I'm not even here anymore. 
Help me, Dennis. Help me.' 
'Is LeBay there?' I asked him. 
'He's always here,' Arnie groaned. 'Oh God, always! Except - ' 
'The car?' 
'When Christine . . . when she goes, then he's with her. That's the only time he's . . . he's . . .'</p>
      <p class="calibre3">Arnie fell silent. His head slipped over to one side. His chin rolled on his chest in a 
boneless pivot. His hair dangled toward the snow. Spit ran out of his mouth and splattered on 
his boots. And then he began to scream thinly and beat his gloved fists on the van behind 
him: 
'Go away! Go away! Go awaaaaay!' 
Then nothing for maybe five seconds nothing except the shuddering of his body, as if a 
basket of snakes had been dumped inside his 'clothes; nothing except that slow, horrible roll 
of his chin on his chest. 
I thought maybe he was winning, that he was beating the dirty old sonofabitch. But when 
he looked up, Arnie was gone. LeBay was there. 
'It's all going to happen just like he said,' LeBay told me. 'Let it go, boy. Maybe I won't 
drive over you.' 
Come on over to Darnell's tonight, I said. My voice was harsh, my throat as dry as sand. 
'We'll play. I'll bring Leigh. You bring Christine.' 
'I'll pick my own time and place,' LeBay said, and grinned with Arnie's mouth, showing 
Arnie's teeth, which were young and strong - a mouth still years from the indignity of 
dentures. 'You won't know when or where. But you'll know. . . when the time comes.' 
'Think again,' I said, almost casually. 'Come to Darnell's tonight, or she and I start talking 
tomorrow.' 
He laughed, an ugly contemptuous sound. 'And where will that get you? The asylum over at 
Reed City?' 
'Oh, we won't be taken seriously at first,' I said. 'I give you that. But that stuff about how 
they put you in the loonybin as soon as you start talking about ghosts and demons . . . uh-uh, 
LeBay. Maybe in your day, before flying saucers and The Exorcist and that house in 
Amityville. These days a hell of a lot of people believe in that stuff.' 
He was still grinning, but his eyes looked at me with narrow suspicion. That, and something 
else. I thought that something else was the first sparkle of fear. 
'And what you don't seem to realize is how many people know something is wrong.' 
His grin faltered. Of course he must have realized that, and been worried about it. But 
maybe killing gets to be a fever; maybe after a while you are simply unable to stop and count 
the cost. 
'Whatever weird, filthy kind of life you still have is all wrapped up in that car,' I said. 'You 
knew it, and you planned to use Arnie from the very beginning - except that “planned” is the 
wrong word, because you never really planned anything, did you? You just followed your 
intuitions.'</p>
      <p class="calibre3">He made a snarling sound and turned to go. 
'You really want to think about it,' I called after him. 'Arnie's father knows something is 
rotten. So does mine. I think there must be some police somewhere who'd be willing to listen 
to anything about how their friend Junkins died. And it all comes back to Christine, Christine, 
Christine. Sooner or later someone's going to run her through the crusher in the back of 
Darnell's just on general principles.' 
He had turned back and was looking at me with a bright mixture of hate and fear in his 
eyes. 
'We'll keep talking, and a lot of people will laugh at us, I don't doubt it. But I've got two 
pieces of cast with Arnie's signature on them. Only one of them isn't his. It's yours. I'll take 
them to the state cops and keep pestering them until they have a handwriting specialist 
confirm that. People are going to start watching Arnie. People are going to start watching 
Christine too. You get the picture?' 
'Sonny, you don't worry me one fucking bit.' But his eyes said something different. I was 
getting to him, all right. 
'It's going to happen,' I said. 'People are only rational on the surface. They still toss salt over 
their left shoulder if they spill the shaker, they don't walk under ladders, they believe in 
survival after death. And sooner or later  -  probably sooner, with Leigh and me shooting off 
our mouths - someone is going to turn that car of yours into a sardine can. And I'm willing to 
bet that when it goes, you'll go with it.' 
'Don't you just wish!' he sneered. 
'We'll be at Darnell's tonight,' I said.' If you're good, you can get rid of both of us. That 
won't end it either, but it might give you some breathing space . . . time enough to get out of 
town. But I don't think you're good enough, chum. It's gone on too long. We're getting rid of 
you.' 
I crutched back to my Duster and got in. I used the crutches more clumsily than I had to, 
tried to make myself look more incapacitated than I really was. I had rocked him by 
mentioning the signatures; it was time to leave before I overplayed my hand. But there was 
one more thing. One thing guaranteed to drive LeBay into a frenzy. 
I pulled my left leg in with my hands, slammed the door, and leaned out. 
I looked into his eyes and smiled. 
'She's great in bed,' I said. 'Too bad you'll never know. 
With a furious roar, he charged at me. I rolled up the window and slapped down the door-
lock. Then, leisurely, I started the engine while he slammed his gloved fists on the glass. His 
face was snarling, terrible. There was no Arnie in it now. No Arnie at all. My friend was</p>
      <p class="calibre3">gone. I felt a dark sorrow that was deeper than tears or fear, but I kept that slow, insulting, 
dirty grin on my face. Then, slowly, I raised my middle finger to the glass. 
'Fuck you, LeBay,' I said, and then pulled out, leaving him to stand there in the lot, shaking 
with that simple, unswerving fury his brother had told me of. It was that more than anything 
else that I was counting on to bring him tonight. 
We'd see.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">50   PETUNIA 
 
Something warm was running in my eyes                                                                                            
But I found my baby somehow that night,                                                                                                  
I held her tight, I kissed her our last kiss . . . 
                 - J. Frank Wilson and the Cavaliers 
 
I drove about four blocks before the reaction set in, and then I had to pull over. I had the 
shakes, bad. Not even the heater, turned up to full, could kill them. My breath came in harsh 
little gasps. I clutched myself to keep warm, but it seemed that I would never be warm again, 
never. That face, that horrible face, and Arnie buried somewhere inside, he's always here, 
Arnie had said, always except when - what? When Christine rolled by herself, of course. 
LeBay couldn't be both places at the same time. That was beyond even his powers. 
At last I was able to drive on again, and I wasn't even aware that I had been crying until I 
looked in the rearview mirror and saw the wet circles under my eyes. 
* * * * * 
It was quarter to ten by the time I made it out to Johnny Pomberton's place. He was a tall, 
broad-shouldered man wearing green gum-rubber boots and a heavy red-and-black-checked 
hunting jacket. An old hat with a grease-darkened bill was tilted up on his balding head as he 
studied the grey sky. 
'More snow comin, the radio says. Didn't know as you'd really be out, boy, but I brung her 
around forya just in case. What do you think of her?' 
I got my crutches under me again and got out of my car. 
Road salt gritted under the crutches' rubber tips, but the going felt safe. Standing in front of 
Johnny Pomberton's woodpile was one of the strangest-looking vehicles I've ever seen in my 
life. A faint, pungent odour, not exactly pleasant, drifted over from it to where we stood. 
At one time, far back in its career, it had been a GM product - or so the logo on its gigantic 
snout advertised. Now it was a little bit of everything. One thing it surely was, and that was 
big. The top of its grille would have been head-high on a tall man. Behind and over it, the cab 
loomed like a big square helmet. Behind that, supported by two sets of double wheels on each 
side, was a long, tubular body, like the body of a gasoline tanker truck. 
Except that I never saw a tanker truck before this one that was painted bright pink. The 
word PETUNIA was written across the side in Roman gothic letters two feet high, 
'I don't know what to think of her,' I said. 'What is she?'</p>
      <p class="calibre3">Pomberton poked a Camel cigarette into his mouth and lit it with a quick flick of his horny 
thumbnail on the tip of a wooden match. 'Kaka sucker,' he said. 
'What?' 
He grinned. 'Twenty-thousand-gallon capacity, he said. 'She's a corker, is Petunia.' 
'I don't get you.' But I was starting to. There was an absurd, grisly irony to it that Arnie - the 
old Arnie would have appreciated. 
I had asked Pomberton over the phone if he had a big, heavy truck to rent, and this was the 
biggest one currently in his yard. All four of his dump trucks were working, two in 
Libertyville and two others in Philly Hill. He'd had a grader, he explained to me, but it had 
had a nervous bustdown just after Christmas. He said he was having a devilish job keeping 
his trucks rolling since Darnell's Garage shut down. 
Petunia was essentially a tanker, no more and no less. Her job was pumping out septic 
systems. 
'How much does she weigh?' I asked Pomberton. 
He flicked away his cigarette. 'Dry, or loaded with shit?' 
I gulped. 'Which is it now?' 
He threw his head back and laughed. 'Do you think I'd rentcher a loaded truck?' He 
pronounced it ludded truck. 'Naw, naw - she's dry, dry as a bone and all hosed out. Sure she 
is. Still a little fragrant, though, ain't she?' 
I sniffed. She was fragrant, all right. 
'It could be a lot worse,' I said. 'I guess.' 
'Sure,' Pomberton said. 'You bet, Old Petunia's original pedigree was lost long ago, but 
what's on her current registration is eighteen thousand pounds, GVW.' 
'What's that?' 
'Gross vehicle weight,' he said. 'If they pull you over on the Interstate and you weigh more 
than eighteen thousand the ICC gets upset. Dry, she prob'ly goes around, I dunno, eight-nine 
thousand Pounds. She's got a five-speed tranny with a two-speed differential, giving you ten 
forward speeds all told ... if you can run a clutch.' 
He cast a dubious eye up and down my crutches and lit another cigarette. 
'Can you run a clutch?' 
'Sure,' I said with a straight face. 'If it isn't really stiff.' But for how long? That was the 
question.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">'Well, that's your business and I won't mess into it.' He looked at me brightly. 'I'll give you a 
ten per cent discount for cash, on account of I don't usually report cash transactions to my 
favourite uncle.' 
I checked my wallet and found three twenties and three tens. 'How much did you say for 
one day?' 
'How does ninety bucks sound?' 
I gave it to him. I had been prepared to pay a hundred and twenty. 
'What are you going to do with your Duster there?' 
It hadn't even crossed my mind until just now. 'Could I leave it here? Just for today?' 
'Sure,' Pomberton said, 'you can leave it here all week, I don't give a shit. Just put it around 
the back and leave the keys in it in case I have to move it.' 
I drove around back where there was a wilderness of cannibalized truck parts poking out of 
the deep snow like bones from white sand. It took me nearly ten minutes to work my way 
back around on my crutches. I could have done it faster if I'd used my left leg a bit, but I 
wouldn't do that. I was saving it for Petunia's clutch. 
I approached Petunia, feeling dread gather in my stomach like a small black cloud. I had no 
doubt it would stop Christine . . . if she really showed up at Darnell's Garage tonight and if I 
could drive the damned truck. I had never driven anything that big in my life, although the 
summer before I'd gotten some hours in on a bulldozer and Brad Jeffries had let me try the 
payloader a couple of times after knocking off for the day. 
Pomberton stood there in his checked jacket, hands stuffed deep into the pockets of his 
workpants, watching me with wise eyes. I got over to the driver's side, grabbed the 
doorhandle, and slipped a little. He took a step or two toward me. 
'I can make it.' 
'Sure,' he said. 
I jammed the crutch into my armpit again, my breath frosting out in quick little gasps, and 
pulled the door open. Holding onto the door's inside handle with my left hand and balancing 
on my right leg like a stork, I threw my crutches into the cab and then followed them. The 
keys were in the ignition, the shift pattern printed on the stick. I slammed the door, pushed 
the clutch down with my left leg - not much pain, so far so good - and started Petunia up. Her 
engine sounded like a full field of stockers at Philly Plains. 
Pomberton strolled over. 'Little noisy, ain't she?' he yelled. 
'Sure!' I screamed back.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">'You know,' he bellowed, 'I doubt like hell if you got an I on your licence, boy.' An I on 
your licence meant that the state had tested you on the big trucks. I had an A for motorcycles 
(much to my mother's horror) but no I. 
I grinned down at him. 'You never checked because I looked trustworthy.' 
He smiled back. 'Sure.' 
I revved the engine a little. Petunia blew off two brisk backfires that were almost as loud as 
mortar blasts. 
'You mind if I ask what-you-want that truck for? None of my business, I know.' 
'Just what it was meant for,' I said. 
'Beggin your pardon?' 
'I want to get rid of some shit,' I said. 
* * * * * 
I had something of a scare going downhill from Pomberton's place; even dry and empty, 
that baby really got rolling. I seemed incredibly high up - able to look down on the roofs of 
the cars I passed. Driving through downtown Libertyville, I felt as conspicuous as a baby 
whale in a goldfish pond. It didn't help any that Pomberton's septic pumper was painted that 
bright pink colour. I got some amused glances. 
My left leg had begun to ache a little, but running through Petunia's unfamiliar gear pattern 
in the stop-and-go downtown traffic kept my mind off it. A more surprising ache was 
developing in my shoulders and across my chest; it came from simply piloting Petunia 
through traffic. The truck was not equipped with power steering, and that wheel really turned 
hard. 
I turned off Main, onto Walnut, and then into the parking lot behind the Western Auto. I got 
carefully down from Petunia's cab, slammed her door (my nose had already become used to 
the faint odour she gave off), set my crutches under me, and went in the back entrance. 
I got the three garage keys off Jimmy's ring and took them over to the key-making 
department. For one-eighty, I got two copies of each. I put the new keys in one pocket, 
Jimmy's ring, with his original keys reattached, in the other. I went out the front door, onto 
Main Street, and down to the Libertyville Lunch, where there was a pay telephone. Overhead, 
the sky was greyer and more lowering than ever. Pomberton was right. There would be snow. 
Inside, I ordered a coffee and Danish and got change for the telephone booth. I went inside, 
closed the door clumsily behind me, and called Leigh. She answered on the first ring. 
'Dennis! Where are you?' 
'The Libertyville Lunch. Are you alone?'</p>
      <p class="calibre3">'Yes. Dad's at work and Mom went grocery shopping. Dennis, I . . . I almost told her 
everything. I started thinking about her parking at the A&amp;P and crossing the parking lot, and . 
. . I don't know, what you said about Arnie leaving town didn't seem to matter. It still made 
sense, but it didn't seem to matter. Do you know what I'm talking about?' 
'Yes,' I said, thinking about giving Ellie a lift down to Tom's the night before, even though 
my leg was aching like hell by then. 'I know exactly what you mean.' 
'Dennis, it can't go on like this. I'll go crazy. Are we still going to try your idea?' 
'Yes,' I said. 'Leave your mom a note, Leigh. Tell her you have to be gone for a little while. 
Don't say any more than that. When you're not home for supper, your folks will probably call 
mine. Maybe they'll decide we ran off and eloped.' 
'Maybe that's not such a bad idea,' she said, and laughed in a way that gave me prickles. 'I'll 
see you.' 
'Hey, one other thing. Is there any pain-killer in your house? Darvon? Anything like that?' 
'There's some Darvon from the time Dad threw his back out,' she said. 'Is it your leg, 
Dennis?' 
'It hurts a little.' 
'How much is a little?' 
'It's really okay.' 
'No B.S.?' 
'No B.S. And after tonight I'll give it a nice long rest, okay?' 
'Okay.' 
'Get here as quick as you can.' 
* * * * * 
She came in as I was ordering a second cup of coffee, wearing a fur-fringed parka and a 
pair of faded jeans. The jeans were tucked into battered Frye boots. She managed to look both 
sexy and practical. Heads turned. 
'Looking good,' I said, and kissed her temple. 
She passed me a bottle of grey and pink gel capsules. 
'You don't look so hot, though, Dennis. Here.' 
The waitress, a woman of about fifty with iron-grey hair, came over with my coffee. The 
cup sat placidly, an island in a small brown pond in the saucer. 'Why aren't you kids in 
school?' she asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">'Special dispensation,' I said gravely. She stared at me. 
'Coffee, please,' Leigh said, pulling off her gloves. As the waitress went back behind the 
counter with an audible sniff, she leaned toward me and said, 'It would be pretty funny if we 
got picked up by the truant officer, wouldn't it?' 
'Hilarious,' I said, thinking that, in spite of the radiance the cold had given her, Leigh really 
wasn't looking all that good. I didn't think either of us really would be until this thing was 
over. There were small strain-lines around her eyes, as if she had slept poorly the night 
before. 
'So what do we do?' 
'We get rid of it,' I said. 'Wait until you see your chariot, madam.' 
* * * * * 
'My God!' Leigh said, staring at Petunia's hot-pink magnificence. It bulked silently in the 
Western Auto parking lot, dwarfing a Chevy van on one side and a Volkswagen on the other. 
'What is it?' 
'Kaka sucker,' I said with a straight face. 
She looked at me, puzzled . . . and then she burst into hysterical gales of laughter. I wasn't 
sorry to see it happen. When I had told her about my confrontation with Arnie in the student 
parking lot that morning, those strain-lines on her face had grown deeper and deeper, her lips 
whitening as they pressed together. 
'I know that it looks sort of ridiculous - ' I said now. 
'That's putting it mildly,' she replied, still giggling and hiccupping. 
' - but it'll do the job, if anything will.' 
'Yes. Yes, I suppose it should. And . . . it's not exactly unfitting, is it?' 
I nodded. 'I had that thought.' 
'Well, let's get in,' she said. 'I'm cold.' 
She climbed up into the cab ahead of me, her nose wrinkling. 'Ag,' she said. 
I smiled. 'You get used to it.' I handed her my crutches and climbed laboriously up behind 
the wheel. The pain in my left leg had subsided from a series of sharp clawings to a dull throb 
again; I had taken two Darvon back in the restaurant. 
'Dennis, is your leg going to be all right?' 
'It'll have to be,' I said, and slammed the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">51   CHRISTINE 
 
As I sd to my                                                                                                                             
friend, because I am                                                                                                                             
always talking, - John I 
sd, which was not his                                                                                                                                
name, the darkness sur-                                                                                                                             
rounds us, what 
can we do against                                                                                                                                    
it, or else, shall we &amp;                                                                                                
why not, buy a goddam big car, 
drive, he sd, for                                                                                                                             
christ's sake, look                                                                                                                             
out where yr going. 
- Robert Creeley 
 
It was eleven-thirty or so when we pulled out of the Western Auto parking lot. The first 
spats of snow were coming down. I drove across town to the Sykes's house, changing gear 
more easily now as the Darvon took hold. 
The house was dark and locked, Mrs Sykes maybe at work, Jimmy maybe off collecting his 
unemployment or something. Leigh found a crumpled-up envelope in her handbag, scratched 
off her address and wrote Jimmy Sykes across the front in her slanting, pretty hand. She put 
Jimmy's keyring into the envelope, folded in the flap, and slipped it through the letter-slot in 
the front door. While she did that, I let Petunia idle in neutral, resting my leg. 
'What now?' she asked, climbing back into the cab. 
'Another phone call,' I said. 
* * * * * 
Out near the intersection of JFK Drive and Crescent Avenue, I found a telephone booth. I 
got carefully out of the truck, holding on until Leigh handed down my crutches. Then I made 
my way carefully through the thickening snow to the booth. Seen through the dirty phone-
booth glass and the swirling snow, Petunia looked like some strange pink dinosaur. 
I called Horlicks University and went through the switchboard to get Michael's office. 
Arnie had told me once that his dad was a real office drone, always brown-bagging it at lunch 
and staying in. Now, as the phone was picked up on the second ring, I blessed him for it.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">'Dennis! I tried to reach you at home! Your mom said - ' 
'Where's he going?' My stomach was cold. It wasn't until then - at that exact moment - that 
all of it began to seem completely real to me, and I began to think that this crazy 
confrontation was going to come off. 
'How did you know he was going? You've got to tell me - ' 
'I don't have time for questions, and I couldn't answer them anyway. Where is he going?' 
Slowly, he said, 'He and Regina are going to Penn State this afternoon right after school. 
Arnie called her this morning and asked her if she'd go with him. He said . . .' He paused, 
thinking. 'He said he felt as if he'd suddenly come to his senses. He said it just sort of hit him 
as he was going to school this morning that if he didn't do something definite about college, it 
might slip away from him. He told her he'd decided Penn State was the best bet and asked her 
if she'd like to go up with him and help talk to the dean of the College of Arts and Sciences, 
and to some of the people in the history and philosophy departments.' 
The booth was cold. My hands were starting to go numb. Leigh was high up in Petunia's 
wheelhouse, watching me anxiously. How well you arranged things, Arnie, I thought. Still the 
chess-player. He was manipulating his mother, putting her on strings and making her dance. I 
felt some pity for her, but not as much as I might have felt. How many times had Regina 
herself been the manipulator, dancing others across her stage like so many Punch and Judys? 
Now, white she was half-distracted with fear and shame, LeBay had dangled in front of her 
eyes the one thing absolutely guaranteed to make her come running: the possibility that things 
might just be returning to normal. 
'And did all that ring true to you?' I asked Michael. 
'Of course not!' he burst out. 'It wouldn't have rung true to her, if she was thinking straight! 
With college admissions what they are today, Penn State would enrol him in July, if he had 
the money for tuition and the College Board scores - and Arnie has both. He talked as if this 
were the fifties instead of the seventies!' 
'When are they leaving?' 
'She's going to meet him at the high school after period six; that's what she said when she 
called me. He's getting a dismissal slip.' 
That meant they would be leaving Libertyville in less than an hour and a half. So I asked 
the last question, even though I already knew the answer. 'They're not taking Christine, are 
they?' 
'No, they're going in the station wagon. She was delirious with joy, Dennis. Delirious. That 
business of getting her to go with him to Penn State . . . that was inspired. Wild horses 
wouldn't have kept Regina from a chance like that. Dennis, what's going on? Please.'</p>
      <p class="calibre3">'Tomorrow,' I said. 'That's a promise. Firm. Meantime, you've got to do something for me. 
It could be a matter of life and death for my family and for Leigh Cabot's family. You - ' 
'Oh my God,' he said hoarsely. He spoke in the voice of a man for whom a great light has 
just dawned. 'He's been gone every time - except when the Welch boy was killed, and that 
time he was . . . Regina saw him asleep, and I'm sure she wasn't lying about that. . . . Dennis, 
who's driving that car? Who's using Christine to kill people when Arnie isn't here?' 
I almost told him, but it was cold in the telephone booth and my leg was starting to ache 
again, and that answer would have led to other questions, dozens of them. And even then the 
only final result might be a flat refusal to believe. 
'Michael, listen,' I said, speaking with all the deliberateness I could summon. For one weird 
moment I felt like Mister Rogers on TV. A big car from the 1950s is coming to eat you up, 
boys and girls. . .. Can you say Christine? I knew you could! 'You've got to call my father and 
Leigh's father. Have both families get together at Leigh's house.' I was thinking of brick, good 
solid brick. 'I think maybe you ought to go too, Michael. All of you stay together until Leigh 
and I get there or until I call. But you tell them for Leigh and me: They're not to go outside 
after' - I calculated: If Arnie and Regina left the high school at two, how long before his alibi 
would be cast-iron-watertight? – ‘after four o'clock this afternoon. After four, none of you 
goes out on the street. Any street. Under no circumstances.' 
'Dennis, I can't just - ' 
'You have to,' I said. 'You'll be able to convince my old man, and between the two of you, 
you should be able to convince Mr and Mrs Cabot. And stay away from Christine yourself, 
Michael.' 
'They're leaving right from school,' Michael said. 'He said the car would be all right in the 
school parking lot.' 
I could hear it in his voice again - his knowledge of the lie. After what had happened last 
fall, Arnie would no more leave Christine in a public parking lot than he would show up in 
Calc class naked. 
'Uh-huh,' I said. 'But if you should happen to look out the window and see her in the 
driveway anyhow, stay clear. Do you understand?' 
'Yes, but - ' 
'Call my father first. Promise me.' 
'All right, I promise . . . but Dennis - ' 
'Thank you, Michael.'</p>
      <p class="calibre3">I hung up. My hands and feet were numb with the cold, but my forehead was slick with 
sweat. I pushed the door of the phone booth open with the tip of one crutch and worked my 
way back to Petunia. 
'What did he say?' Leigh asked. 'Did he promise?' 
'Yes,' I said. 'He promised and my dad will see that they get together. I'm pretty sure of that. 
If Christine goes for anyone tonight, it will have to be us.' 
'All right,' she said. 'Good.' 
I threw Petunia into gear, and we rumbled away. The stage was set - as well as I could set 
it, anyway - and now there was really nothing to do but wait and see what would come. 
* * * * * 
We drove a-cross town to Darnell's Garage through steady light snow, and I pulled into the 
parking lot at just past one that afternoon. The long, rambling building with its corrugated-
steel sides was totally deserted, and Petunia's bellyhigh wheels cut through deep, unploughed 
snow to stop in front of the main door. The signs bolted to that door were the same as they 
had been on that long-ago August evening when Arnie first drove Christine there - SAVE 
MONEY! YOUR KNOW-HOW, OUR TOOLS! Garage Space Rented by the Week, Month, or 
Year, and HONK FOR ENTRY - but the only one that really meant anything was the new one 
leaning in the darkened office window: CLOSED UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE. Sitting in one 
corner of the snowy front lot was an old crumpled Mustang, one of the real door-suckers 
from the '60s. Now it sat silent and broody under a shroud of snow. 
'It's creepy,' Leigh said in a low voice. 
'Yeah. It sure is.' I gave her the keys I'd made at the Western Auto that morning. 'One of 
these will do it.' 
She took the keys, got out, and walked over to the door. I kept an eye in both rearview 
mirrors while she fumbled at the lock, but we didn't seem to be attracting any undue 
attention. I suppose there is a certain psychology involved in seeing such a big, conspicuous 
vehicle - it makes the idea of something clandestine or illegal harder to swallow. 
Leigh suddenly tugged hard on the door, stood up, tugged again, and then came back to the 
truck. 'I got the key to turn, but I can't get the door up,' she said. 'I think it's frozen to the 
ground or something.' 
Great, I thought. Wonderful. None of this was going to come easily. 
'Dennis, I'm sorry,' she said, seeing it on my face. 
'No, it's all right,' I said. I opened the driver's door and performed another of my comical 
sliding exits.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">'Be careful,' she said anxiously, walking beside me with her arm around my waist as I 
crutched carefully through the snow to the door. 'Remember your leg.' 
'Yes, Mother,' I said, grinning a little. I stood in profile to the door when I got there so I 
could bend down to the right and keep my weight off my bad leg. Bent over in the snow, left 
leg in the air, left hand holding onto my crutches, right hand grasping the roll-up door's 
handle, I must have looked like a circus contortionist. I pulled and felt the door give a little . . 
. but not quite enough. She was right; it had iced up pretty good along the bottom. You could 
hear it crackling. 
'Grab on and help me,' I said. 
Leigh placed both of her hands over my right hand and we pulled together. That crackling 
sound became a little louder, but still the ice wouldn't quite give up its grip on the foot of the 
door. 
'We've almost got it,' I said. My right leg was throbbing unpleasantly, and sweat was 
running down my cheeks. 'I'll count. On three, give it all you've got. Okay?' 
'Yes,' she said. 
'One . . . two . . . three!' 
What happened was the door came free of the ice all at once, with absurd, deadly ease. It 
flew upwards on its tracks, and I stumbled backward, my crutches flying. My left leg folded 
underneath me and I landed on it. The deep snow cushioned the fall somewhat, but I still felt 
the pain as a kind of silver bolt that seemed to ram upward from my thigh all the way to my 
temples and back down again. I clenched my teeth over a scream, barely keeping it in, and 
then Leigh was on her knees in the snow beside me, her arm around my shoulders. 
'Dennis! Are you all right?' 
'Help me up.' 
She had to do most of the pulling, and both of us were gasping like winded runners by the 
time I was on my feet again with my crutches propped under me. Now I really needed them. 
My left leg was in agony. 
'Dennis, you won't be able to work the clutch in that truck now - ' 
'Yeah, I will. Help me back, Leigh.' 
'You're as white as a ghost. I think we ought to get you to a doctor.' 
'No. Help me back.' 
'Dennis - ' 
'Leigh, help me back!'</p>
      <p class="calibre3">We inched our way back to Petunia through the snow leaving shuffling, troubled tracks in 
the snow behind us. I reached up, laid hold of the steering wheel, and did a chin-up to get in, 
scraping feebly at the running board with my right leg . . . and still, in the end, Leigh had to 
get behind me and put both hands on my kiester and shove. At last I was behind Petunia's 
wheel, hot and shivering with pain. My shirt was wet with snowmelt and sweat. Until that 
day in January of 1979, I don't think I knew how much pain can make you sweat. 
I tried to jam down the clutch with my left foot and that silver bolt of pain came again, 
making me throw my head back and grind my teeth until it subsided a little. 
'Dennis, I'm going down the street and find a phone and call a doctor.' Her face was white 
and scared. 'You broke it again, didn't you? When you fell?' 
'I don't know,' I said. 'But you can't do that, Leigh. It'll be your folks or mine if we don't end 
it now. You know that. LeBay won't stop. He has a well-developed sense of vengeance. We 
can't stop.' 
'But you can't drive it!' she wailed. She looked up into the cab at me, crying now. The hood 
of her parka had fallen back in our mutual struggle to get me up into the driver's seat, where I 
now sat in magnificent uselessness. I could see a scatter of snowflakes in her dark blond hair. 
'Go inside there,' I said. 'See if you can find a broom, or a long stick of wood.' 
'What good will that do?' she asked, crying harder. 
'Just get it, and then we'll see.' 
She we into the dark maw of the open door and disappeared from view . I held onto my leg 
and sparred with terror. If I really had broken my leg again, there was a good chance I'd be 
wearing a built-up heel on my left foot for the rest of my life. But there might not even be 
that much of my life left if we couldn't put a stop to Christine. Now there was a cheery 
thought. 
Leigh came back with a push broom. 'Will this do?' she asked. 
'To get us inside, yes. Then we'll have to see if we can find something better.' 
The handle was the type that unscrews. I got hold of it, unthreaded it, and tossed the bristle 
end aside. Holding it in my left hand along my side - just another goddam crutch I pushed 
down the clutch with it. It held for a moment, then slipped off. The clutch sprang back up. 
The top of the handle almost bashed me in the mouth. Lookin good, Guilder. But it would 
have to do. 
'Come on, get in,' I said. 
'Dennis, are you sure?' 
'As sure as I can be,' I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">She looked at me for a moment, and then nodded. 'Okay.' 
She went around to the passenger side and got in. I slammed my own door, depressed 
Petunia's clutch with the broom-handle, and geared into first. I had the clutch halfway out and 
Petunia was just starting to roll forward when the broom-handle slipped off the clutch again. 
The septic tanker ran inside Darnell's Garage with a series of neck-snapping jerks, and when I 
slammed my right foot down on the brake, the truck stalled. We were mostly inside. 
'Leigh, I've got to have something with a wider foot,' I said. 'This broom-handle don't cut it.' 
'I'll see what there is.' 
She got out and began to walk around the edge of the garage floor, hunting. I stared around. 
Creepy, Leigh had said, and she was right. The only cars left were four or five old soldiers so 
gravely wounded that no one had cared enough to claim them. All the rest of the slant spaces 
with their numbers stencilled in white paint were empty. I glanced at stall twenty and then 
glanced away. 
The overhead tyre racks were likewise nearly empty. A few baldies remained, heeled over 
against one another like giant doughnuts blackened in a fire, but that was all. One of the two 
lifts was partially up, with a wheel-rim caught beneath it. The front-end alignment chart on 
the right-hand wall glimmered faintly red and white, the two headlight targets like bloodshot 
eyes. And shadows, everywhere. Overhead, big box-shaped heaters pointed their louvers this 
way and that, roosting up there like weird bats. 
It seemed very much like a death-place. 
Leigh had used another of Jimmy's keys to open Will's office. I could see her moving back 
and forth in there through the window Will had used to look out at his customers . . . those 
working joes who had to keep their cars running so they could blah-blah-blah. She flipped 
some switches, and the overhead fluorescents came on in snowcold ranks. So the electric 
company hadn't cut off the juice. I'd have to have her turn the lights off again - we couldn't 
afford to risk attracting attention - but at least we could have some heat. 
She opened another door and disappeared temporarily from view. I glanced at my watch. 
One-thirty now. 
She came back, and I saw that she was holding an O-Cedar mop, the kind with the wide 
yellow sponge along the foot. 
'Would this be any good?' 
'Only perfect,' I said. 'Get in, kiddo. We're in business.' 
She climbed up once more, and I pushed the clutch down with the mop. 'Lots better,' I said. 
'Where did you find it?' 
'In the bathroom,' she said, and wrinkled her nose.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">'Bad in there?' 
'Dirty, reeking of cigars, and there's a whole pile of mouldy books in the corner. The kind 
they sell at those little hole-in-the-wall stores.' 
So that was what Darnell left behind him, I thought: an empty garage, a pile of Beeline 
Books, and a phantom reek of Roi-Tan cigars. I felt cold again, and thought that if I had my 
way, I'd see this place bulldozed flat and pasted over with hottop. I could not shake the 
feeling that it was an unmarked grave of a sort - the place where LeBay and Christine had 
killed my friend's mind and taken over his life. 
'I can't wait to get out of here,' Leigh said, looking around nervously. 
'Really? I kind of like it. I was thinking of moving in.' I caressed her shoulder and looked 
deeply into her eyes. 'We could start a family,' I breathed. 
She held up a fist. 'Want me to start a nosebleed?' 
'No, that's all right. For what it's worth, I can't wait to get out of here, either.' I drove 
Petunia the rest of the way inside. I found that I could run the clutch pretty well using the O-
Cedar mop . . . in first gear, at least. The handle had a tendency to bend, and I would have 
preferred something thicker, but it would have to do unless we could find something better in 
the meantime. 
'We've got to turn off the lights again,' I said, killing the engine. 'The wrong people might 
see them.' 
She got out and turned them off while I swung Petunia in a wide circle and then carefully 
backed it up until the rear end almost touched the window between the garage and Darnell's 
office. Now the big truck's snout was pointing directly back at the open overhead door 
through which we had entered. 
With the lights off, the shadows descended again. The light coming in through the open 
door was weak, muted by the snow, white and without strength. It spread on the oil-stained, 
cracked concrete like a pie-wedge and simply died halfway across the floor. 
'I'm cold, Dennis,' Leigh called from Darnell's office. 'He's got the switches for the heat 
marked. Can I turn them on?' 
'Go ahead,' I called back. 
A moment later the garage whispered with the sound of the blowers. I leaned back against 
the seat, gently running my hands over my left leg. The material of my jeans was stretched 
smoothly over the thigh, tight and without a wrinkle. The sonofabitch was swelling. And it 
hurt. Christ, did it hurt. 
Leigh came back and climbed up beside me. She told me again how terrible I looked, and 
for some reason my mind cross-patched and I thought of the afternoon Arnie had brought</p>
      <p class="calibre3">Christine down here, of the be-bop queen's husband yelling for Arnie to get that hunk of junk 
out from in front of his house, and of Arnie telling me the guy was a regular Robert 
Deadford. How we had gotten the giggles. I closed my eyes against the sting of tears. 
* * * * * 
With nothing to do but wait, time slowed down. It was quarter of two, then two o'clock. 
Outside, the snow had thickened a little, but not much. Leigh got out of the truck and pushed 
the button that trundled the door back down. That made it even darker inside. 
She came back, climbed up, and said, 'There's a funny gadget on the side of the door - see 
it? It looks just like the electronic garage door-opener we used to have when we lived in 
Weston.' 
I sat up suddenly. Stared at it. 'Oh,' I said. 'Oh, Jesus.' 
'What's the matter?' 
'That's just what it is. A garage door-opener. And there's one of the transmitter gadgets on 
Christine. Arnie mentioned that to me Thanksgiving night. You've got to break it, Leigh. Use 
the handle of that push broom.' 
So she got down again, picked up the broom-handle, and stood below the electric eye 
gadget, looking up and bashing at it with the handle. She looked like a woman trying to kill a 
bug near the ceiling. At last she was rewarded with a crunch of plastic and a tinkle of glass. 
She came back slowly, tossing the broom-handle aside and got up beside me. 'Dennis, don't 
you think it's time you told me exactly what you've got in mind?' 
'What do you mean?' 
'You know what I mean,' she said, and pointed at the closed overhead door. Five square 
windows in a line three-quarters of the way up its height let in minimal light through dirty 
glass. 'When it gets dark you plan to open that door again, don't you?' 
I nodded. The door itself was wood, but it was braced with hinged steel strips, like the inner 
gate of an old-time elevator. I'd let her in, but once the door was shut, Christine wouldn't be 
able to bash her way out again. I hoped. It made me cold to think how close we'd come to 
overlooking the electronic door-opener. 
Open the door at dusk, yes. Let Christine in, yes. Close the door again. Then I would use 
Petunia to batter her to death. 
'Okay,' she said, 'that's the trap. But once she - it - comes in, how are you going to get that 
door shut again to keep her in? Maybe there's a button in Darnell's office that does it, but I 
didn't see it.' 
'So far as I know, there isn't one,' I said. 'So you're going to be standing over there by the 
button that shuts the door.' I pointed. The manual button was located on the right side of the</p>
      <p class="calibre3">door, about two feet below the ruin of the electric door-opener box. 'You'll be against the 
wall, out of sight. When Christine comes in - always assuming she does - you're going to 
push the button that starts the door coming down and then step outside in a hurry. The door 
comes down. And, bam! The trap's shut.' 
Her face set. 'On you as well as her. In the words of the immortal Wordsworth, that sucks.' 
'That's Coleridge, not Wordsworth. There's no other way to do it, Leigh. If you're still inside 
when that door comes down, Christine is going to run you down. Even if there was a button 
in Darnell's office - well, you saw in the paper what happened to the side of his house.' 
Her face was stubborn. 'Park over by the switch. And when she comes in, I'll reach out the 
window and hit the button and lower the door.' 
'If I park there, I'll be in sight. And if this tank is in sight, she won't come in.' 
'I don't like it!' she burst out. 'I don't like leaving you alone! It's like you tricked me!' 
In a way, that's just what I had done, and for whatever  it's worth, I would not do it the same  
way now - but I was going on eighteen then, and there's no male chauvinist pig like an 
eighteen-year-old male chauvinist pig. I put an arm around her shoulders. She resisted stiffly 
for a moment and then came to me, 'There's just no other way,' I said. 'If it wasn't for my leg, 
or if you could drive a manual shift - ' I shrugged. 
'I'm scared for you, Dennis. I want to help' 
'You'll be helping plenty. You're the one that's really in danger, Leigh - you'll be outside, on 
the floor, when she comes in. I'm just going to sit up here in the cab and beat that bitch back 
into component parts.' 
'I only hope it works that way,' she said, and put her head on my chest. I touched her hair. 
* * * * * 
So we waited. 
In my mind's eye I could see Arnie coming out of the main building at LHS, books under 
his arm. I could see Regina waiting for him there in the Cunninghams' compact wagon, 
radiant with happiness, Arnie smiling remotely and submitting to her embrace. Arnie, you've 
made the right decision . . . you don't know how relieved, how happy, your father and I are. 
Yes, Mom. Do you want to drive, honey? No, you drive, Mom. That's okay. 
The two of them setting off for Penn State through the light snow, Regina driving, Arnie 
sitting in the shotgun seat with his hands folded stiffly in his lap, his face pale and unsmiling 
and clear of acne. 
And back in the student parking lot at LHS, Christine sitting silently in the driveway. 
Waiting for the snow to thicken. Waiting for dark.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">At three-thirty or so, Leigh went back through Darnell's office to use the bathroom, and 
while she was gone I dry-swallowed two more Darvon. My leg was a steady, leaden agony. 
Shortly after that, I lost coherent track of time. The dope had me fuddled, I guess. The 
whole thing began to seem Dreamlike the deepening shadows, the white light coming in 
through the windows slowly changing to an ashy grey, the drone of the overhead heaters. 
I think that Leigh and I made love . . . not in the ordinary way, not with my leg the way it 
was, but some kind of sweet substitute. I seem to remember her breath steepening in my ear 
until she was nearly panting; I seem to remember her whispering for me to be careful, to 
please be careful, that she had lost Arnie and could not bear to lose me too. I seem to 
remember an explosion of pleasure that made the pain disappear in a brief but total way that 
not all the Darvon in the world could manage . . . but brief was the right word. It was all too 
brief. And then I think I dozed. 
The next thing I remember for sure was Leigh shaking me fully awake and whispering my 
name over and over in my ear. 
'Huh? What?' I was spaced out and my leg was full of a glassy pain, simply waiting to 
explode. There was an ache in my temples, and my eyes felt too big for their sockets. I 
blinked around at Leigh like a large stupid owl. 
'It's dark,' she said. 'I thought I heard something.' 
I blinked again and saw that she looked drawn and frightened. Then I glanced toward the 
door and saw that it was standing wide open. 
'How the hell did that - ' 
'Me,' she said. 'I opened it.' 
'Cripes!' I said, straightening up -a little and wincing at the pain in my leg. 'That wasn't too 
smart, Leigh. If she had come - ' 
'She didn't,' Leigh said. 'It started to get dark, that's all,' and to snow harder. So I got out and 
opened the door and then I came back here. I kept thinking you'd wake up in a minute . . . you 
were mumbling . . . and I kept thinking, “I'll wait until it's really dark, I'll just wait until it's 
really dark,” and then I saw I was fooling myself, because it's been dark for almost half an 
hour now and I was only thinking I could still see some light. Because I wanted to see it, I 
guess. And . . . just now . . . I thought I heard something.' 
Her lips began to tremble and she pressed them tightly together. 
I looked at my watch and saw that it was quarter of six. If everything had gone right, my 
parents and sister would be together with Michael and Leigh's folks now. I looked through 
Petunia's windscreen at the square of snow-shot darkness where the garage entrance was. I 
could hear the wind shrieking. A thin creeper of snow had already blown in onto the cement.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">'You just heard the wind, I said uneasily. 'It's walking and talking out there.' 
'Maybe. But - ' 
I nodded reluctantly. I didn't want her to leave the safety of Petunia's high cab, but if she 
didn't go now, maybe she never would. I wouldn't let her, and she would let me not let her. 
And then, when and if Christine came, all she would have to do would be to reverse back out 
of Darnell's. 
And wait for a more opportune time. 
'Okay,' I said. 'But remember . . . stand back in that little niche to the right of the door. If 
she comes, she may just stand outside for a while.' Scenting the air like an animal, I thought. 
'Don't get scared, don't move. Don't let her freak you into giving yourself away. Just be cool 
and wait until she comes in. Then push that button and get the hell out. Do you understand?' 
'Yes,' she whispered. 'Dennis, will this work?' 
'It should, if she comes at all.' 
'I won't see you until it's over.' 
'I guess that's so.' 
She leaned over, placed her left hand tightly on the side of my neck, and kissed my mouth. 
'Be careful, Dennis,' she said, 'But kill it. It's realty not a she at all - just an it. Kill it.' 
'I will,' I said. 
She looked in my eyes and nodded. "Do it for Arnie 'she said. 'Set him free.' 
I hugged her hard and she hugged me back. Then she slid across the seat. She hit her little 
handbag with her knee and it fell to the floor of the cab. She paused, bead cocked, a startled, 
thoughtful look in her eyes. Then she smiled, bent over, picked it up, and began to rummage 
quickly through it. 
'Dennis,' she said, 'do you remember the Morte d'Arthur?' 
'A little.' One of the classes Leigh and Arnie and I had all shared before my football injury 
was Fudgy Bowen's Classics of English Literature, and one of the first things we had been 
faced with in there was Malory's Morte d'Arthur. Why Leigh asked me this now was a 
mystery to me. 
She had found what she wanted. It was a filmy pink scarf, nylon, the sort of thing a girl 
wears over her head on a day when a misty sort of rain is falling. She tied it around the left 
forearm of my parka. 
'What the hell?' I asked, smiling a little.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">'Be my knight,' she said, and smiled back - but her eyes were serious. 'Be my knight, 
Dennis.' 
I picked up the squeegee mop she had found in Will's bathroom and made a clumsy salute 
with it. 'Sure,' I said. 'Just call me Sir O-Cedar.' 
'Joke about it if you want,' she said, 'but don't really joke about it. Okay?' 
'All right,' I said. 'If it's what you want, I'll be your parfit goddam gentil knight.' 
She laughed a little, and that was better. 
'Remember about that button kiddo. Push it hard. We don't want that door to just burp once 
and stop on its track. No escapes, right?' 
'Right.' 
She got out of Petunia, and I can close my eyes now and see her as she was then, in that 
clean and silent moment just before everything went terribly wrong - a tall, pretty girl with 
long blond hair the colour of raw honey, slim hips, long legs, and those striking, Nordic 
cheekbones, now wearing a ski-parka and faded Lee Riders, moving with a dancer's grace. I 
can still see it and I still dream about it, because of course while we were busy setting up 
Christine, she was busy setting us up - that old and infinitely wise monster. Did we really 
think we could outsmart her so easily? I guess we did. 
My dreams are in terrible slow motion. I can see the softly lovely motion of her hips as she 
walks; I can hear the hollow click of her Frye boots on the oil-stained cement floor; I can ever 
hear the soft, dry whish-whish of her parka's quilted inner lining brushing against her blouse. 
She's walking slowly and her head is up - now she is the animal, but no predator; she walks 
with the cautious grace of a zebra approaching a waterhole at dusk. It is the walk of an animal 
that scents danger. I try to scream to her through Petunia's windscreen. Come back, Leigh, 
come back quick, you were right, you heard something, she's out there now, out there in the 
snow with her headlights off, crouched down, Leigh, come back! 
She stopped suddenly, her hands tensing into fists, and that was when sudden savage circles 
of light sprang to life in the snowy dark outside. They were like white eyes opening. 
Leigh froze, hideously exposed on the open floor. She was thirty feet inside the door and 
slightly to the right of centre. She turned toward the headlights, and I could see the dazed, 
uncertain expression on her face. 
I was just as stunned, and that first vital moment passed unused. Then the headlights sprang 
forward and I could see the dark, low-slung shape of Christine behind them; I could hear the 
mounting, furious howl of her engine as she leaped toward us from across the street where 
she had been waiting all along - maybe even since before dark. Snow tunnelled back from her 
roof and skirted across her windscreen in filmy nets that were, almost instantly melted by the 
defroster. She hit the tarmac leading up to the entrance, still gaining speed. Her engine was a 
V-8 scream of rage.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">'Leigh!' I screamed, and clawed for Petunia's ignition switch. 
Leigh broke to the right and ran for the wall-button. Christine roared inside as she reached 
it and pushed it. I heard the rattle-rumble of the overhead door descending on its track. 
Christine came in angling to the right, going for Leigh. She dug a great clout of dry wood 
and splinters from the wall. There was a metallic screech as part of her right bumper pulled 
loose - a sound like a drunk's scream of laughter. Sparks cascaded across the floor as she 
went into a long, slewing turn. She missed Leigh, but she wouldn't when she went back; 
Leigh was stuck in that right-hand corner with nowhere to hide. She might be able to make it 
outside, but I was terribly afraid that the door wasn't coming down fast enough to cut off 
Christine. The descending door might peel off her roof, but that wouldn't stop her and I knew 
it. 
Petunia's engine bellowed and I dragged out the headlight button. Her brights came on, 
splashing over the closing door, and over Leigh. She was backed up against the wall, her eyes 
wide. Her parka took on a weird, almost electric blue colour in the headlights, and my mind 
informed me with sickening and clinical accuracy that her blood would look purple. 
I saw her glance upward for a moment and then back down at Christine. 
The Fury's tyres screamed violently as she leaped at Leigh. Smoke rose from the new black 
marks on the concrete, and I just had time to register the fact that there were people inside of 
Christine: a whole carload of them. 
At the same instant that Christine roared toward her, Leigh leaped upward with a big 
ungainly Jack-in the box spring. My mind, seeming to run at a speed approaching light, 
wondered for a moment if she was intending to leap right over the Plymouth, as if, instead of 
Fryes, she wore boots of the seven-league variety. 
Instead, she caught and gripped the rusted metal struts which supported an overhead shelf 
about nine feet above the floor, over three feet above her head. This shelf skirted all four 
walls. On the night Arnie and I had first brought Christine in, that entire shelf had been 
crammed with recapped tyres and old baldies waiting to be recapped - in some funny way it 
had reminded me of a well-stocked library shelf. Now it was mostly empty. Holding those 
angled struts, Leigh swung her jeaned legs up like a kid who means to throw his legs right 
over his own shoulders - what we used to call skinning the cat in grammar school. Christine's 
snout smashed into the wall directly below her. If she had been any slower getting her legs 
up, they would have been mashed off at the knees. A piece of chrome flew. Two of the 
remaining tyres tumbled from the shelf and bounced crazily on the cement like giant rubber 
doughnuts. 
Leigh's head smashed back against the wall with battering, dazing force as Christine 
reversed, all four of her tyres laying rubber and squirting blue smoke.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">And what was I doing 'all this time,' you wonder? It wasn't all that time, that is my answer. 
Even as I used the O-Cedar mop to depress Petunia's clutch and gear into first, the overhead 
door was just thumping down. All of it had happened in the space of seconds. 
Leigh was still holding onto the struts supporting the tyre shelf, but now she only hung 
there, head down, dazed. 
I let the clutch out, and a cold part of my mind took over: Easy, man - if you pop the clutch 
and stall this fucker, she's dead. 
Petunia rolled. I revved the engine up to a bellow and let the clutch out all the way. 
Christine roared at Leigh again, her hood crimped almost double from her first hit, bright 
metal showing through the broken paint at the sharpest points of bend. It looked as if her 
hood and grille had grown shark's teeth, 
I hit Christine three-quarters of the way toward the front and she slid around, one of her 
tyres pulling off the rim. The '58 slammed into a litter of old bumper jacks and junk parts in 
one corner; there was a booming crash as she struck the wall, and then the hot sound of her 
engine, revving and falling off, revving and falling off. The entire left front end was bashed 
in - but she was still running. 
I slammed on Petunia's brake with my right foot and barely managed to avoid crushing 
Leigh myself. Petunia's engine stalled. Now the only sound in the garage was Christine's 
screaming engine. 
'Leigh!' I screamed over it. 'Leigh, run!' 
She looked over at me groggily, and now I could see sticky braids of blood in her hair - it 
was as purple as I had expected. She let go of the struts, landed on her feet, staggered, and 
went to one knee. 
Christine came for her. Leigh got up, took two wobbling steps, and got on her blind side, 
behind Petunia. Christine swerved and struck the truck's front end. I was thrown roughly to 
the right. Pain roared through my left leg. 
'Get up!' I screamed at Leigh, trying to lean even farther over and open the door. 'Get up!' 
Christine backed off, and when she came again she cut hard to the right and went out of my 
line of vision around the back of Petunia. I caught just a glimpse of her in the rearview mirror 
bolted outside the driver's side window. Then I could only hear the scream of her tyres. 
Barely conscious, Leigh simply wandered off, holding both hands laced to the back of her 
head. Blood trickled through her fingers. She walked in front of Petunia's grille toward me 
and then just stopped. 
I didn't have to see in order to know-what was going to happen next. Christine would 
reverse again, back to my side, and then crush her against the wall.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">Desperately, I shoved the clutch in with the mop and keyed the engine again. It turned over, 
coughed, stalled. I could smell gasoline in the air, heavy and rich. I had flooded the engine. 
Christine reappeared in the rearview mirror. She came at Leigh, who managed to stumble 
backward just out of reach. Christine slammed nose-on into the wall with crunching force. 
The passenger door popped open and the horror was complete; the hand not clutching the 
mop-handle went to my mouth and I screamed through it. 
Sitting on the passenger side like a grotesque life-sized doll was Michael Cunningham. His 
head, lolling limply on the stalk of his neck, snapped over to one side as Christine reversed to 
make another try at Leigh, and I saw his face had the high, rosy colour of carbon monoxide 
poisoning. He hadn't taken my advice. Christine had gone to the Cunninghams' house first, as 
I had vaguely suspected she might. Michael came home from school and there she was, 
standing in the driveway, his son's restored 1958 Plymouth. He had gone to it, and somehow 
Christine had . . . had gotten him. Had he maybe gotten in just to sit behind the wheel for a 
moment, as I had that day in LeBay's garage? He might have. Just to see what vibrations he 
could pick up. If so, he must have picked up some terrible vibes indeed during his last few 
minutes on earth. Had Christine started herself up? Driven herself into the garage? Maybe. 
Maybe. And had Michael discovered that he could neither turn off the madly revving engine 
or get out of the car? Had he maybe turned his head and perhaps seen the true guiding spirit 
of Arnie's '58 Fury, lounging in the shotgun seat, and fainted in terror? 
It didn't matter now. Leigh was all that mattered. 
She had seen, too. Her screams, high, despairing, and shrill, floated in the exhaust-stinking 
air like hysterically bright balloons. But it had, at least, cut through her daze. 
She turned and ran for Will Darnell's office, blood splattering behind her in dime-sized 
drops as she went. Blood was soaking into the collar of her parka - too much blood. 
Christine backed up, laying rubber and leaving a scatter of glass behind. As she pulled 
around in a tight circle to go after Leigh, centrifugal force pulled the passenger door shut 
again - but not before I saw Michael's head loll back the other way. 
Christine held still for a moment, her nose pointed toward Leigh, her engine revving. 
Perhaps LeBay was savouring the instant before the kill. If so, I'm glad, because if Christine 
had gone for her right away, she would have been killed then. But as it was, I had an instant 
of time, I turned the key again, babbling something aloud - a prayer, I guess - and this time 
Petunia's engine coughed into life. I let the clutch out and stepped down on the accelerator as 
Christine leaped forward again. This time I struck her right side. There was a shrill scream of 
tearing metal as Petunia's bumper punched through her mudguard. Christine heeled over and 
smashed against the wall. Glass broke. Her engine raced and raved. Behind the wheel, LeBay 
turned toward me, grinning with hate. 
Petunia stalled again.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">I rattled off a string of every curse I knew as I grabbed for the key again. If not for my 
goddam leg, if not for the fall I'd taken in the snow, this would be over now; it would just be 
a matter of cornering her and smashing her to pieces against the cinderblock. 
But even as I cranked Petunia's engine, keeping my foot off the gas to keep from stalling 
her again, Christine began to reverse with an ear-splitting squeal of metal. She backed out 
from between Petunia's grille and the wall, leaving a twisted chunk of her red body behind, 
baring her right front tyre. 
I got Petunia going and found reverse. Christine had backed all the way down to the far end 
of the garage. All her headlights were out. Her windscreen was smashed into a galaxy of 
cracks. The bent hood seemed to sneer. 
Her radio was blasting. I could hear Ricky Nelson singing 'Waitin in School'. 
I stared around for Leigh and saw her in Will's office, looking out into the garage. Her 
blond hair was matted with blood. More blood ran down the left side of her face and soaked 
into her jacket. Bleeding too damn much, I thought incoherently. Bleeding too damn much, 
even for a head wound. 
Her eyes widened and she pointed past me, her lips moving soundlessly behind the glass. 
Christine came roaring straight up the empty floor, gaining speed. 
And the hood was uncrimping, straightening out and down to cover the motor cavity again. 
Two of the headlights flickered, then came back strong. The mudguard and the right-hand 
side of her body - I only caught a glimpse, but I swear it's true - they were . . . reknitting 
themselves, red metal appearing from nowhere and slipping down in smooth automotive 
curves to cover the right front tyre and the right side of the engine compartment again. The 
cracks in the windscreen were running inward and disappearing. And the tyre that had been 
pulled off its rim looked as good as new. 
It all looks as good as new, I thought. God help us. 
She was going directly for the wall between the garage and the office. I let the mop-handle 
off the clutch fast, hoping to interpose the tanker's body, but Christine got past me. Petunia 
backed into nothing but thin air. Oh, I was doing great. I backed all the way across the floor 
and crashed into the dented tool-lockers ranged there. They crashed to the floor with dull 
metallic janglings. Through the windscreen I saw Christine hit the wall between the garage 
and Will's office. She never slowed; she went full speed ahead. 
I'll never forget those next few moments - they remain hypnotically clear in my memory, as 
if seen through a magnifying crystal. Leigh saw Christine coming and stumbled backward. 
Her bloody hair was matted to her head. She fell over Will's swivel chair. She hit the floor, 
out of sight behind his desk. An instant later - and I mean the barest instant - Christine 
slammed into the wall. The big window Will had used to keep track of the comings and 
goings out in his garage exploded inward. Glass flew like a cluster of deadly spears.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">Christine's front end bulged with the impact. The hood popped up and then tore off, flying 
back over the roof to land on the concrete with a metallic sound that was much like the sound 
the falling tool-lockers had made. 
Her windscreen shattered. Michael Cunningham's body flew through the jagged opening, 
legs trailing, his head a grotesque flattened football. He was catapulted through Will's 
window; he struck Will's desk with a heavy grainsack thud and skidded over onto the floor. 
His shoes stuck up. 
Leigh began to scream. 
Her fall had probably saved her from being badly lacerated or killed by the flying glass, but 
when she rose from behind the desk her face was contorted with horror, and utter hysteria had 
its hold on her. Michael had skidded from the desk and his arms had looped themselves over 
her shoulders and as Leigh struggled to her feet she appeared to be waltzing with the corpse. 
Her screams were like fireballs. Her blood, still flowing, sparkled deadly bright. She dumped 
Michael and ran for the door. 
'Leigh, no!' I screamed, and slammed down the clutch with the mop again. The handle 
snapped cleanly in two, leaving me with a stump five inches long. 'Ohhhh - SHIT!'  
Christine reversed away from the broken window, leaving water, antifreeze, and oil 
puddled on the floor. 
I stamped down on the clutch with my left foot, barely feeling the pain now, bracing my left 
knee with my left hand as I worked the gearstick. 
Leigh tore the office door open and ran out. 
Christine turned toward her, its smashed, snarling snout sighting down on her. 
I revved Petunia's engine and roared at her, and as that damned car from hell grew in the 
windscreen, I saw the purple, swollen face of a child pressed to the rear window, watching 
me, seeming to beg me to stop. 
I struck her hard. The boot lid popped up and gaped like a mouth. The rear end heeled 
around and Christine went skidding sideways past Leigh, who fled with her eyes seeming to 
swallow her face. I remember the spray of blood along the fur fringe of her parka's hood, tiny 
droplets like an evil fall of dew. 
I was in it now. I was in the peak seat. Even if they had to take my leg off at the groin when 
this was done, I was going to drive. 
Christine hit the wall and bounced back. I stamped the clutch, rammed the gearstick into 
reverse, backed up ten feet, stamped the clutch again, rammed it back into first. Engine 
revving, Christine tried to pull away along the wall. I cut to the left and hit her again, 
crushing her almost wasp-waisted in the middle. The doors popped out of their frames at the 
top and the bottom. LeBay was behind the wheel, now a skull, now a decayed and stinking</p>
      <p class="calibre3">cameo of humanity, now a hale and hearty man in his fifties with a crew-cut turning white. 
He stared out at me with his devil's grin, one hand on the wheel, one balled into a fist that he 
shook at me. 
And still her engine would not die. 
I got into reverse again, and now my leg was white iron and the pain was all the way up to 
my left armpit. The hell it was. The pain was everywhere. I could feel it 
(Michael, Jesus why didn't you stay in the house) 
in my neck, in my jaw in my 
(Arnie? Man, I am so sorry I wish I wish) 
temples. The Plymouth - what remained of her - lunged drunkenly down the side of the 
garage, spraying tools and junk metal, pulling out struts and dumping the overhead shelves. 
The shelves hit the concrete with flat, clapping sounds that echoed like demon applause. 
I stamped the clutch again and floored the gas. Petunia's engine bellowed, and I hung onto 
the wheel like a man trying to stay aboard a bucking mustang. I hit her on the right side and 
smashed the body clear off the rear axle, driving it into the door, which shivered and rattled. I 
went up over the wheel, which slammed into my belly and drove the breath out of me and 
dumped me back into my seat, gasping. 
Now I saw Leigh, cowering in the far corner, her hands clapped to her face, dragging it 
down into a witch's mask. 
Christine's engine was still running. 
She dragged herself slowly down toward Leigh, like an animal whose rear legs have been 
broken in a trap. And even as she went I could see her regenerating, coming back: a tyre that 
suddenly popped up full and plump, the radio aerial that unjointed itself with a silvery 
twinggg! sound, the accretion of metal around the ruined rear end. 
'Stay dead!' I screamed at it. I was crying, my chest heaving. My leg wouldn't work 
anymore. I braced it with both hands and jammed it onto the clutch. My vision went hazy and 
grey with the white-metal agony. I could almost feel the bones grating. 
I raced the engine, got first gear again, and charged it; and as I did I heard LeBay's voice 
for the first and only time, high and cheated and full of a terrible, unquenchable fury: 
'You SHITTER! Fuck off, you miserable SHITTER! LEAVEMEALONE!' 
'You should have left my friend alone,' I tried to yell - but all that would come out was a 
tearing, wounded gasp. 
I hit it squarely in the rear end, and the gas tank ruptured as the back of the car accordioned 
inward and upward in a kind of metal mushroom. There was a yellow lick of fire. I shielded</p>
      <p class="calibre3">my face with my hands - but then it was gone. Christine sat there, a refugee from a 
demolition derby. Her engine ran choppily, missed, fired again, and then died. 
The place was silent except for the bass rumble of Petunia's engine. 
Then Leigh was running across the floor, screaming my name over and over, crying. I was 
suddenly, stupidly aware that I was wearing her pink nylon scarf around the arm of my 
jacket. 
I looked down at it, and then the world greyed out again. 
I could feel her hands on me, and then there was nothing but darkness as I fainted. 
* * * * * 
I came to about fifteen minutes later, my face wet and blessedly cool. Leigh was standing 
on Petunia's driver's side running board, mopping my face with a wet rag. I caught it in one 
hand, tried to suck it, and then spat. The rag tasted strongly of oil. 
'Dennis, don't worry,' she said. 'I ran out into the street . . . stopped a snowplough . . . scared 
the poor man out of ten years of his life, I think . . . all this blood . . . he said . . . an 
ambulance . . . he said he'd, you know . . . Dennis, are you all right?' 
'Do I look all right? I whispered. 
'No,' she said, and burst into tears. 
'Then don't' - I swallowed past a pain dry lump in my throat - 'don't ask stupid questions. I 
love you.' 
She hugged me clumsily. 
'He said he'd call the police, too,' she said. 
I barely heard her. My eyes had found the twisted, silent hulk that was Christine's remains. 
And hulk was the right word; she hardly looked like a car at all anymore. But why hadn't she 
burned? A hubcap lay off to one side like a dented silver tiddlywink. 
'How long since you stopped the plough?' I asked hoarsely. 
'Maybe five minutes. Then I got the rag and dipped it in that bucket over there. Dennis . . . 
thank God it's over.' 
Punk! Punk! Punk! 
I was still looking at the hubcap. 
The dents were popping out of it. 
Abruptly it flicked up on its rim and rolled towards the car like a huge coin.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">Leigh saw it too. Her face froze. Her eyes widened and began to bulge. Her lips mouthed 
the word No but no sound came out. 
'Get in here with me,' I said in a low voice, as if it could hear us. How do I know? - perhaps 
it could. 'Get in on the passenger side. You're going to run the gas while I run the clutch with 
my right foot.' 
'No . . .' This time it was a hissing whisper. Her breath came in whining little gasps. 'No . . . 
no . . . ' 
The wreckage was quivering all over. It was the most eerie, most terrible thing I have ever 
seen in my life. It was quivering all over, quivering like an animal that is not . . . quite . . . 
dead. Metal tapped nervously against metal. Tie rods clicked jittery jazz rhythms against their 
connectors. As I watched, a bent cotter-pin lying on the floor straightened itself and did half a 
dozen cartwheels to land in the wreckage. 
'Get in,' I said. 
'Dennis, I can't.' Her lips quivered helplessly. 'I can't . . . no more . . . that body . . . that was 
Arnie's father. I can't, no more, please - ' 
'You have to,' I said. 
She looked at me, glanced affrightedty back at the obscenely quivering remains of that old 
whore LeBay and Arnie had shared, and then came around Petunia's front end. A piece of 
chrome tumbled and scratched her leg deeply. She screamed and ran. She clambered up into 
the cab and pushed over beside me. 'Wh-what do I do?' 
I hung halfway out of the cab, holding onto the roof, and pushed the clutch down with my 
right foot. Petunia's engine was still running. 'Just gun the gas and keep it gunned,' I said. 'No 
matter what.' 
Steering with my right hand, holding on with my left, I let the clutch out and we rolled 
forward and smashed into the wreckage, smashing it, scattering it. And in my head I seemed 
to hear another scream of fury. 
Leigh clapped her hands to her head. 'I can't, Dennis! I can't do it! It - it's screaming!' 
'You've got to do it,' I said. Her foot had come off the gas and now I could hear the sirens in 
the night, rising and falling. I grabbed her shoulder and a sickening blast of pain ripped up 
my leg. 'Leigh, nothing has changed. You've got to.' 
'It screamed at me!' 
'We're running out of time and it still isn't done. Just a little more.' 
'I'll try,' she whispered, and stepped on the gas again.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">I changed into reverse. Petunia rolled back twenty feet. I clutched again, got first . . . and 
Leigh suddenly cried out. 'Dennis, no! Don't! Look!' 
The mother and the little girl, Veronica and Rita, were standing in front of the smashed and 
dented hulk of Christine, hand in hand, their faces solemn and sorrowing. 
'They're not there,' I said. 'And if they are, it's time they went back' - more pain in my leg 
and the world went grey - 'back to where they belong. Keep your foot on it.' 
I let out the clutch and Petunia rolled forward again, gaining speed. The two figures did not 
disappear as TV and movie ghosts do; they seemed to stream out in every direction, bright 
colours fading to wash pinks and blues . . . and then they were totally gone. 
We slammed into Christine again, spinning what was left of her around. Metal shrieked and 
tore. 
'Not there,' Leigh whispered. Not really there Okay. Okay, Dennis.' 
Her voice was coming from far down a dark hallway. I fetched up reverse and back we 
went. Then forward. We hit it; we hit it again. How many times? I don't know. We just kept 
slamming into it, and every time we did, another jolt of pain would go up from my leg and 
things would get a little bit darker. 
At last I looked up blearily, and saw that the air outside the door seemed full of blood. But 
it wasn't blood; it was a pulsing red light reflecting off the falling snow. People were rattling 
at the door out there. 
'Is it good enough?' Leigh asked me. 
I looked at Christine - only it wasn't Christine anymore. It was a spread-out pile of twisted, 
gored metal, puffs of upholstery, and glittering broken glass. 
'Have to be,' I said. 'Let them in, Leigh.' 
And while she went, I fainted again. 
* * * * * 
Then there were a series of confused images; things that came into focus for a while and 
then faded or disappeared completely. I can remember a stretcher being rolled out of the back 
of an ambulance; I can remember its sides being folded up, and how the overhead 
fluorescents put cold highlights on its chrome; I can remember someone saying, 'Cut it, you 
have to cut it off so we can at least look at it'; I can remember someone else - Leigh, I think - 
saying 'Don't hurt him, please, don't hurt him if you can help it'; I can remember the roof of 
an ambulance . . . it had to be an ambulance because at the periphery of my vision were two 
suspended IV bottles; I can remember a cool swab of antiseptic and then the sting of a needle. 
After that, things became exceedingly weird. I knew, somewhere deep inside, that I was not 
dreaming - the pain proved that, if it proved nothing else - but all of it seemed like a dream. I</p>
      <p class="calibre3">was pretty well doped, and that was part of it . . . but shock was part of it too. No fake, Jake. 
My mother was there, crying, in a room that looked sickeningly like the hospital room in 
which I had spent the entire autumn. Then my father was there, and Leigh's dad was with 
him, and their faces were both so tight and grim they looked like Tweedledum and 
Tweedledee as Franz Kafka might have written them. My father bent over me and said in a 
voice like thunder reverberating through cotton batting: 'How did Michael get there, Dennis?' 
That's what they really wanted to know: how Michael got there. Oh, I thought, oh my friends, 
I could tell you stories. . . . 
Then Mr Cabot was saying, 'What did you get my daughter into, boy?' I seem to remember 
replying, 'It's not what I got her into, it's what she got you out of,' which I still think was 
pretty witty under the circumstances, doped up the way I was and all. 
Elaine was there briefly, and she seemed to be holding a Yodel or a Twinkie or something 
mockingly out of my reach. Leigh was there, holding her filmy nylon scarf out and asking me 
to raise my arm so she could tie it on. But I couldn't; my arm was like a lead bar. 
Then Arnie was there, and of course that had to be a dream. 
Thanks, man, he said, and I noticed with something like terror that the left lens of his 
glasses was shattered. His face was okay, but that broken lens . . . it scared me. Thanks. You 
did okay. I feel better now. I think things are going to be okay now. 
No sweat, Arnie, I said - or tried to say - but he was gone. 
It was the next day not the 20th, but Sunday, January 21st - that I started to come back a 
little. My left leg was in a cast up in its old familiar position again amid all the pulleys and 
weights. There was a man I had never seen before sitting to the left of my bed, reading a 
paperback John D. MacDonald story. He saw me looking at him and lowered his book. 
'Welcome back to the land of the living, Dennis,' he said mildly, and deliberately marked 
his place in the book with a matchbook cover. He put the book in his lap and folded his hands 
over it. 
 'Are you a doctor?' I asked. He sure wasn't Dr Arroway, who had taken care of me last 
time; this guy was twenty years younger and at least fifty pounds leaner. He looked tough. 
'State Police Inspector,' he said. 'Richard Mercer is my name. Rick, if you like.' He held out 
his hand, and stretching awkwardly and carefully I touched it. I couldn't really shake it. My 
head ached and I was thirsty. 
'Look,' I said. 'I don't really mind talking to you, and I'll answer all of your questions, but I'd 
like to see a doctor.' I swallowed. He looked at me, concerned, and I blurted out, 'I need to 
know if I'm ever going to walk again.' 
'If what that fellow Arroway says is the truth,' Mercer said, 'You'll be able to get around in 
four to six weeks. You didn't break it again, Dennis. You severely strained it; that was what 
he said. It swelled up like a sausage. He also said you were lucky to get off so cheap.'</p>
      <p class="calibre3">'What about Arnie?' I asked. 'Arnie Cunningham? Do you know - ' 
His eyes flickered. 
'What is it?' I asked. 'What is it about Arnie?' 
'Dennis,' he said, and then hesitated. 'I don't know if this is the time.' 
'Please. Is Arnie . . . is he dead?' 
Mercer sighed. 'Yes, he's dead. He and his mother had an accident on the Pennsylvania 
Turnpike, in the snow. If it was an accident.' 
I tried to talk and couldn't. I motioned for the pitcher of water on the bedtable, thinking how 
dismal it was to be in a hospital room and know exactly where everything was. Mercer 
poured me a glass and put the straw with the elbow-bend in it. I drank, and it got a little bit 
better. My throat, that is. Nothing else seemed better at all. 
'What do you mean, if it was an accident?' 
Mercer said, 'It was Friday evening, and the snow just wasn't that heavy. The turnpike 
classification was two bare and wet, reduced visibility, use appropriate caution. We guess, 
from the force of impact, that they weren't doing much more than forty-five. The car veered 
across the median and struck a semi. It was Mrs Cunningham's Volvo wagon. It exploded.' 
I closed my eyes. 'Regina?' 
'Also DOA. For whatever it's worth, they probably didn't - ' 
' - suffer,' I finished. 'Bullshit. They suffered plenty.' I felt tears and choked them back. 
Mercer said nothing. 'All three of them,' I muttered. 'Oh Jesus Christ, all three.' 
'The driver of the truck broke his arm. That was the worst of it for him. He said that there 
were three people in the car, Dennis.' 
'Three!' 
'Yes. And he said they appeared to be struggling.' Mercer looked at me frankly. 'We're 
going on the theory that they picked up a bad-news hitchhiker who escaped after the accident 
and before the troopers arrived.' 
But that was ridiculous, if you knew Regina Cunningham, I thought. She would no more 
pick up a hitchhiker than she would wear slacks to a faculty tea. The things you did and those 
you never did were firmly set in Regina Cunningham's mind. As if in cement, you could say. 
It had been LeBay. He couldn't be both places at once, that was the thing. And at the end, 
when he saw how things were going in Darnell's Garage, he had abandoned Christine and had 
tried to go back to Arnie. What had happened then was anyone's guess. But I thought then - 
and do now - that Arnie fought him . . . and earned at least a draw.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">'Dead,' I said, and now the tears did come. I was too weak and low to stop them. I hadn't 
been able to keep him from getting killed, after all. Not the last time, not when it really 
mattered. Others, maybe, but not Arnie. 
'Tell me what happened,' Mercer said. He put his book on the bedtable and leaned forward. 
'Tell me everything you know, Dennis, from first to last.' 
'What has Leigh said?' I asked. 'And how is she?' 
'She spent Friday night here under observation, Mercer told me. 'She had a concussion and 
a scalp laceration that took a dozen stitches to close. No marks on her face. Lucky. She's a 
very pretty girl.' 
'She's more than that,' I said. 'She's beautiful.' 
'She won't say anything,' Mercer said, and a reluctant grin - of admiration, I think - slanted 
his face to the left. 'Not to me, not to her father. He is, shall we say, in a state of high pissoff 
about the whole thing. She says it's your business what to tell and when to tell.' He looked at 
me thoughtfully. 'Because, she says, you're the one who ended it.' 
I didn't do such a great job,' I muttered. I was still trying to cope with the idea that Arnie 
could possibly be dead. It was impossible, wasn't it? We had gone to Camp Winnesko in 
Vermont together when we were twelve, and I got homesick and told him I was going to call 
and tell my parents they had to come get me. Arnie said if I did, he'd tell everybody at school 
that the reason I came home early was that they caught me eating boogers in my bunk after 
lights out and expelled me. We climbed the tree in my back yard to the very top fork and 
carved our initials there. He used to sleep over at my house and we'd stay up late watching 
Shock Theatre, crouched together on the sofa under an old quilt. We ate all those clandestine 
Wonder Bread sandwiches. When he was fourteen Arnie came to me, scared and ashamed 
because he was having these sexy dreams and he thought they were making him wet the bed. 
But it was the ant farms my mind kept coming back to. How could he be dead when we had 
made those ant farms together? Dear Christ, it seemed like only a week or two ago, those ant 
farms. So how could he be dead? I opened my mouth to tell Mercer that Arnie couldn't be 
dead those ant farms made the very idea absurd. Then I closed my mouth again. I couldn't tell 
him that. He was just a guy. 
Arnie, I thought. Hey, man - it's not true, is it? Jesus Christ, we still got too much to do. We 
never even double-dated at the drive-in yet. 
'What happened?' Mercer asked again. 'Tell me, Dennis.' 
'You'd never believe it,' I said thickly. 
'You might be surprised what I'd believe,' he said. 'And you might be surprised what we 
know. A fellow named Junkins was the chief investigator on this case. He was killed not so 
very far from here. He was a friend of mine. A good friend. A week before he died he told me</p>
      <p class="calibre3">that he thought something was going on in Libertyville that nobody would believe. Then he 
was killed. With me that makes it personal.' 
I shifted positions cautiously. 'He didn't tell you any more?' 
'He told me that he believed he had uncovered an old murder,' Mercer said, still not taking 
his eyes from mine. 'But it didn't much matter, he said, because the perpetrator was dead.' 
'LeBay,' I muttered, and thought that if Junkins had known about that, it was no wonder 
Christine had killed him. Because if Junkins had known that, he had been much too close to 
the whole truth. 
Mercer said, 'LeBay was the name he mentioned. He leaned closer. 'And I'll tell you 
something else, Dennis - Junkins was one hell of a driver. When he was younger, before he 
got married, he used to run stockers at Philly Plains, and be won his share of checkered flags. 
He went off the road doing better than a hundred and twenty in a Dodge cruiser with a hemi 
engine. Whoever was chasing him and we know someone was - had to be one hell of a 
driver.' 
'Yeah,' I said. 'He was.' 
'I came by myself. I've been here for two hours waiting for you to wake up. I was here until 
they kicked me out last night. I don't have a stenographer with me, I don't have a tape 
recorder, and I assure you that I'm not wearing a wire. When you make a statement - if you 
ever have to - that'll be a different ballgame. But for now, it's you and me. I have to know. 
Because I see Rudy Junkins's wife and Rudy Junkins's kids from time to time. You dig?' 
I thought it over. For a long time I thought it over nearly five minutes. He sat there and let 
me do it. At last I nodded. 'Okay. But you're still not going to believe it.' 
'We'll see, - ' he said. 
I opened my mouth with no idea of what was going to come out. 'He was a loser, you 
know,' I said. 'Every high school has to have at least two, it's like a national law. Everyone's 
dumping ground. Only sometimes . . . sometimes they find something to hold onto and they 
survive. Arnie had me. And then he had Christine.' 
I looked at him, and if I had seen the slightest wrong flicker in those grey eyes that were so 
unsettlingly like Arnie's . . . well, if I had seen that, I think I would have clammed up right 
there and told him to put it on his books in whatever way seemed the most plausible and to 
tell Rudy Junkins's kids whatever the hell he pleased. 
But he only nodded, watching me closely. 
'I just wanted you to understand that,' I said, and then a lump rose in my throat and I 
couldn't say what I maybe should have said next: Leigh Cabot came later. 
I drank some more water and swallowed hard. I talked for the next two hours.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">* * * * * 
At last I finished. There was no big climax; I simply dried up, my throat sore from so much 
talking. I didn't ask if he believed me; I didn't ask him if he was going to have me locked up 
in a loonybin or give me a liars' medal. I knew that he believed a great deal of it, because 
what I knew dovetailed too well with what he knew. What he thought about the rest of it - 
Christine and LeBay and the past reaching out its hands toward the present - that I didn't 
know. And don't to this day. Not really. 
A little silence fell between us. At last he slapped his hands down on his thighs with a brisk 
sound and got to his feet. 'Well!' he said. 'Your folks will be waiting to visit you, no doubt.' 
'Probably, yeah.' 
He took out his wallet and produced small white business card with his name and number 
on it. 'I can usually be reached here, or someone will throw me a relay. When you speak to 
Leigh Cabot again, would you tell her what you've told me and ask her to get in touch?' 
'Yes, if you want. I'll do that.' 
'Will she corroborate your story.' 
'Yes.' 
He looked at me fixedly. 'I'll tell you this much, Dennis,' he said. 'If you're lying, you don't 
know you are.' 
He left. I only saw him once more, and I that was at the triple funeral for Arnie and his 
parents. The papers reported a tragic and bizarre fairy tale - father killed in driveway car 
accident while mother and son are killed on Pennsylvania Turnpike. Paul Harvey used it on 
his programme. 
No mention was made of Christine being at Darnell's Garage. 
* * * * * 
My family came to visit that night, and by then I was feeling much easier in my mind - part 
of it was baring my bosom to Mercer, I think (he was what one of my psych profs in college 
called 'an interested outsider', the sort it's often easiest to talk to), but a great lot of the way I 
felt was due to a flying late-afternoon visit by Dr Arroway. He was out of temper and 
irascible with me, suggesting that next time I just take a chainsaw to the goddam leg and save 
us all a lot of time and trouble . . . but he also informed me (grudgingly, I think) that no 
lasting damage had been done. He thought. He warned me that I had not improved my 
chances of ever running in the Boston Marathon and left. 
So the family visit was a gay one - due mostly to Ellie, who prattled on and on about that 
upcoming cataclysm, her First Date. A pimply, bullet-headed nerd named Brandon Hurling 
had invited her to go roller skating with him. My dad was going to drive them. Pretty cool.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">My mother and father joined in, but my mother kept throwing anxious don't-forget glances 
at Dad, and he lingered after Mom had taken Elaine out. 
'What happened?' he asked me. 'Leigh told her father some crazy story about cars driving 
themselves and little girls who were dead and I don't know whatall. He's damn near wild.' 
I nodded. I was tired, but I didn't want Leigh catching hell from her folks - or have them 
thinking she was either lying or nuts. If she was going to cover me with Mercer, I would have 
to cover her with her mother and father. 
'All right,' I said. 'It's a bit of a story. You want to send Mom and Ellie around for a malt, or 
something? Or maybe you better tell them to go to a movie.' 
'That long?' 
'Yeah. That long.' 
He looked at me, his gaze troubled. 'Okay,' he said. 
Shortly after, I told my story a second time. Now I've told it a third; and third time, so they 
say, pays for all. 
Rest in peace, Arnie. 
I love you, man.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">EPILOGUE 
 
I guess if this was a made-up story I would end it by telling you how the broken-legged 
knight of Darnell's Garage wooed and won the lady fair . . . she of the pink nylon scarf and 
the arrogant Nordic cheekbones. But that never happened. Leigh Cabot is Leigh Ackerman 
now; she's in Taos, New Mexico, married to an IBM customer service rep. She sells Amway 
in her spare time. She had two little girls, identical twins, so I guess she probably doesn't 
have all that much spare time. I keep up on her doings after a fashion; my affection for the 
lady never really faded. We trade cards at Christmas, and I also send her a card on her 
birthday because she never forgets mine. That sort of thing. There are times when it seems a 
lot longer than four years. 
What happened to us? I don't really know. We went together for two years, slept together 
(very satisfactorily), went to school together (Drew), and were friends with each other. Her 
father shut up about our crazy story after my father talked with him, although he always 
regarded me after that as something of a dubious person. I think that both he and Mrs Cabot 
were relieved when Leigh and I went our separate ways. 
I could feel it when we started to drift apart, and it hurt me - it hurt a lot. I craved her in a 
way you continue to crave some substance on which you have no more physical dependency . 
. . candy, tobacco, Coca-Cola. I carried a torch for her, but I'm afraid I carried it self-
consciously and dropped it with an almost unseemly haste. 
And maybe I do know what happened. What happened that night in Darnell's Garage was a 
secret between us, and of course lovers need their secrets . . . but this wasn't a good one to 
have. It was something cold and unnatural, something that smacked of madness and worse 
than madness; it smacked of the grave, There were nights after love when we would lie 
together in bed, naked, belly to belly, and that thing would be between us: Roland D. LeBay's 
face. I would be kissing her mouth or her breasts or her belly, warm with rising passion, and I 
would suddenly hear his voice: That's about the finest smell in the world . . . except for pussy. 
And I would freeze, my passion all steam and ashes. 
There were times, God knows, when I could see it in her face as well. The lovers don't 
always live happily ever after, even when they've done what seemed right as well as they 
could do it. That's something else it took four years to learn. 
So we drifted apart. A secret needs two faces to bounce between; a secret needs to see itself 
in another pair of eyes. And although I did love her, all the kisses, all the endearments, all the 
walks arm-in-arm through blowing October leaves . . . none of those things could quite 
measure up to that magnificently simple act of tying her scarf around my arm. 
Leigh left college to be married, and then it was goodbye Drew and hello Taos. I went to 
her wedding with hardly a qualm. Nice fellow. Drove a Honda Civic. No problems there. 
* * * * *</p>
      <p class="calibre3">I never had to worry about making the football squad. Drew doesn't even have a football 
squad. Instead, I took an extra class each semester and went to summer school for two years, 
in the time when I would have been sweating under the August sun, hitting the tackling 
dummies, if things had happened differently. As a result, I graduated early - three semesters 
early, in fact. 
If you met me on the street, you wouldn't notice a limp, but if you walked with me four or 
five miles (I do at least three miles every day as a matter of course; that physical therapy stuff 
sticks), you'd notice me starting to pull to the right a little bit. 
My left leg aches on rainy days. And on snowy nights. 
And some times when I have my nightmares - they are not so frequent now - I wake up, 
sweating and clutching at that leg, where there is still a hard bulge of flesh above the knee. 
But all my worries about wheelchairs, braces, and built-up heels proved thankfully hollow. 
And I never liked football that well anyway. 
Michael, Regina, and Arnie Cunningham were buried in a family plot in the Libertyville 
Heights cemetery - no one went out to the gravesite but members of the family: Regina's 
people from Ligonier, some of Michael's people from New Hampshire and New York, a few 
others. 
The funeral was five days after that final hellish scene in the garage. The coffins were 
closed. The very fact of those three wooden boxes, lined up on a triple bier like soldiers, 
struck my heart like a shovelful of cold earth. The memory of the ant farms couldn't stand 
against the mute testimony of those boxes. I cried a little. 
Afterward, I rolled myself down the aisle toward them and put my hand tentatively on the 
one in the centre, not knowing if it was Arnie's or not, not caring. I stayed that way for quite a 
while, head down, and then a voice said behind me, 'Want a push back out to the vestry, 
Dennis?' I craned my neck around. It was Mercer, looking neat and lawyerly in a dark wool 
suit. 
'Sure,' I said. 'Just gimme a couple of seconds, okay?' 
'Fine.' 
I hesitated and then said, 'The papers say Michael was killed at home. That the car rolled 
over him after he slipped on the ice, or something.' 
'Yes,' he said. 
'Your doing?' 
Mercer hesitated. It makes things simpler. His gaze shifted to where Leigh was standing 
with my folks. She was talking with my mother but looking anxiously toward me. 'Pretty 
girl,' he said. He had said it before, in the hospital.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">'I'm going to marry her someday,' I said. 
'I wouldn't be surprised if you did,' Mercer replied. 'Did anyone ever tell you that you've got 
the balls of a tiger?' 
'I think Coach Puffer did,' I said, 'Once.' 
He laughed. 'You ready for that push, Dennis? You've been down here long enough. Let it 
go.' 
'Easier said than done.' 
He nodded. 'Yeah. I guess so. 
'Will you tell me one thing?' I asked. 'I have to know.' 
'I will if I can.' 
'What did - ' I had to stop and clear my throat. 'What did you do with the . . .the pieces?' 
'Why, I saw to that myself,' Mercer said. His voice was light, almost joking, but his face 
was very, very serious. 'I had two fellows from the local police run all those pieces through 
the crusher out back of Darnell's Garage. Made a little cube about so big.' He held his hands 
about two feet apart. 'One of those guys got a hell of a bad cut. Took stitches.' 
Mercer suddenly smiled - it was the bitterest, coldest smile I've ever seen. 
'He said it bit him.' 
Then he pushed me up the, aisle to, where my family and my girl stood waiting for me. 
* * * * * 
So that's my story. Except for the dreams. 
I'm four years older, and Arnie's face has grown hazy to me, a browning photograph from 
an old yearbook. I never would have believed that could happen, but it has. I made it through, 
made the transition from adolescence to manhood - whatever that is - somehow; I've got a 
college degree on which the ink is almost dry, and I've been teaching high school history. I 
started last year, and two of my original students - Buddy Repperton types, both of them - 
were older than I was. I'm single, but there are a few interesting ladies in my life, and I hardly 
think of Arnie at all. 
Except in my dreams. 
The dreams aren't the only reason I've set all this down - there's another, which I'll tell you 
in a moment - but I would be lying if I said the dreams weren't a big part of the reason. 
Maybe it's an effort to lance the wound and clean it out. Or maybe it's just that I'm not rich 
enough to afford a shrink.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">In one of the dreams I am back where the funeral service was held. The three coffins are on 
their triple bier, but the church is empty except for me. In the dream I am on crutches again, 
standing at the foot of the central aisle, back by the door. I don't want to go down there, but 
my crutches are pulling me along, moving by themselves. I touch the middle coffin. It springs 
open at my touch, and lying inside in the satin interior is not Arnie but Roland D. LeBay, a 
putreseent corpse in an Army uniform. As the bloated smell of gassy decay rushes out at me, 
the corpse opens its eyes; its rotting hands, black and slimy with some fungoid growth, grope 
upward and find my shirt before I can back away, and it pulls itself up until its glaring, 
reeking face is only inches from mine. And it begins to croak over and over again, Can't beat 
the smell, can you? Nothing smells this good . . . except for pussy . . . except for pussy . . . 
except for pussy. I try to scream but I can't scream, because LeBay's hands have settled in a 
noxious, tightening ring around my throat. 
In the other dream - and this one is somehow worse I've finished with a class or proctoring 
a study hall at Norton Junior High, where I teach. I pack my books into my briefcase, stuff in 
my papers, and leave the room for my next class. And there in the hall, packed in between the 
industrial-grey lockers lining it, is Christine - brand new and sparkling, sitting on four new 
whitewall tyres, a chrome Winged Victory hood ornament tilting toward me. She is empty, 
but her engine guns and falls off . . . guns and falls off . . . guns and falls off. In some of the 
dreams the voice from the radio is the voice of Richie Valens, killed long ago in a plane 
crash, with Buddy Holly and J. P. Richardson, The Big Bopper. Richie is screaming 'La 
Bamba' to a Latin beat, and as Christine suddenly lunges toward me, laying rubber on the hall 
floor and tearing open locker doors on either side with her doorhandles, I see that there is a 
vanity plate on the front - a grinning white skull on a dead black field. Imprinted over the 
skull are the words ROCK AND ROLL WILL NEVER DIE. 
Then I wake up - sometimes screaming, always clutching my leg. 
* * * * * 
But the dreams are less now. Something else I read in one of my psych classes - I took a lot 
of them, maybe hoping to understand things that can't be understood - is that people dream 
less as they grow older. I think I am going to be all right now. Last Christmas season, when I 
sent Leigh her annual card, I added a line to my usual note on the back. Below my signature, 
on impulse, I scribbled: How are you dealing with it? Then I sealed the card up and mailed it 
before I could change my mind. I got a postcard back a month later. It showed the new Taos 
Center for the Performing Arts on the front. On the back was my address and a single flat 
line: Dealing with what? L. 
One way or another I guess we find out things we have to know. 
Around the same time - it seems as though it's around Christmas that my thoughts turn to it 
the most often - I dropped Rick Mercer a note, because the question had been on my mind 
more and more, gnawing at me . I wrote and asked him what had become of the block of 
scrap metal that had once been Christine.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">I got no answer. 
But time is teaching me how to deal with that too. I think about it less - I really do. 
* * * * * 
So here I am, at the tag end of everything, old memories and old nightmares all bundled 
into a neat sheaf of pages. Soon I will put them in a folder and put the folder in my file 
cabinet and lock that drawer and that will be the end. 
But I told you there was something else, didn't I? Some other reason for writing it all down. 
His single-minded purpose. His unending fury. 
I read it in the paper a few weeks ago - just an item that got put on the AP wire because it 
was bizarre, I suppose. Be honest, Guilder, I can hear Arnie saying, so I will. It was that item 
that got me going, more than all the dreams and old memories. 
The news item was about a guy named Sander Galton, whose nickname, one would 
logically assume, must have been Sandv. 
This Sander Galton was killed out in California, where he was working at a drive-in movie 
theatre in LA. He was apparently alone, closing up shop for the night after the movie had 
ended. He was in the snack-bar, A car ripped right through one of the walls, ploughed 
through the counter, smashed the popcorn machine, and got him as he was trying to unlock 
the door to the projection booth. The cops knew that was what he was doing when the car ran 
him down because they found the key in his hand. I read that item, headed BIZARRE 
MURDER BY CAR IN LOS ANGELES - and I thought of what Mercer had told me, that last 
thing: He said it bit him. 
Of course it's impossible, but it was all impossible to start with. 
I keep thinking of George LeBay in Ohio. 
His sister in Colorado. 
Leigh in New Mexico. 
What if it's started again? 
What if it's working its way east, finishing the job? 
Saving me for last? 
* * * * * 
His single-minded purpose. 
His unending fury.</p>
    </body>
</html>
