<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>CHRISTINE</title>
    <meta name="DC.Title" content="CHRISTINE"/>
    <meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/><link href="../stylesheet.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><style type="text/css">
		@page { margin-bottom: 5.000000pt; margin-top: 5.000000pt; }</style></head>
  <body class="calibre2">
<div class="calibre5" id="calibre_pb_0"></div><h2 class="calibre6">Part I 
 
Dennis - Teeenage Car-Songs</h2>
      <p class="calibre3">1   FIRST VIEWS 
 
Hey, looky there!                                                                     
Across the street!                                                                              
There's a car made just for me,                                                                   
To own that car would be a luxury. . . .                                            
That car's fine-lookin, man,                                                                   
That's somethin else. 
                            - Eddie Cochran 
 
'Oh my God!' my friend Arnie Cunningham cried out suddenly. 
'What is it?' I asked. His eyes were bulging from behind his steel-rimmed glasses, he had 
plastered one hand over his face so that his palm was partially cupping his mouth, and his 
neck could have been on ball-bearings the way he was craning back over his shoulder. 
'Stop the car, Dennis! Go back!' 
'What are you - ' 
'Go back, I want to look at her again.' 
Suddenly I understood. 'Oh, man, forget it,' I said. 'If you mean that . . . thing we just passed 
- ' 
'Go back!' He was almost screaming. 
I went back, thinking that it was maybe one of Arnie's subtle little jokes. But it wasn't. He 
was gone, lock, stock, and barrel. Arnie had fallen in love. 
She was a bad joke, and what Arnie saw in her that day I'll never know. The left side of her 
windscreen was a snarled spiderweb of cracks. The right rear deck was bashed in, and an ugly 
nest of rust had grown in the paint-scraped valley. The back bumper was askew, the boot-lid 
was ajar, and stuffing was bleeding out through several long tears in the seat covers, both 
front and back. It looked as if someone had worked on the upholstery with a knife. One tyre 
was flat. The others were bald enough to show the canvas cording. Worst of all, there was a 
dark puddle of oil under the engine block. 
Arnie had fallen in love with a 1958 Plymouth Fury, one of the long ones with the big fins. 
There was an old and sun-faded FOR SALE sign propped on the right side of the windscreen - 
the side that was not cracked.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">'Look at her lines, Dennis!' Arnie whispered. He was running around the car like a man 
possessed. His sweaty hair flew and flopped. He tried the back door on the passenger side, 
and it came open with a scream. 
'Arnie, you're having me on, aren't you?' I said. 'It's sunstroke, right? Tell me it's sunstroke. 
I'll take you home and put you under the frigging air conditioner and we'll forget all about 
this, okay?' But I said it without much hope. He knew how to joke, but there was no joke on 
his face then. Instead ' there was a kind of goofy madness I didn't like much. 
He didn't even bother to reply. A hot, stuffy billow of air, redolent of age, oil, and advanced 
decomposition, puffed out of the open door. Arnie didn't seem to notice that, either. He got in 
and sat down on the ripped and faded back seat. Once, twenty years before, it had been red. 
Now it was a faded wash pink. 
I reached in and pulled up a little puff of stuffing, looked at it, and blew it away. 'Looks like 
the Russian army marched over it on their way to Berlin,' I said. 
He finally noticed I was still there. 'Yeah . . . yeah. But she could be fixed up. She could . . . 
she could be tough. A moving unit, Dennis. 'A beauty. A real - ' 
'Here! Here! What you two kids up to?' 
It was an old guy who looked as if he was enjoying - more or less - his seventieth summer. 
Probably less. This particular dude struck me as the sort of man who enjoyed very little. His 
hair was long and scraggy, what little there was left of it. He had a good case of psoriasis 
going on the bald part of his skull. 
He was wearing green old man's pants and low-topped Keds. No shirt; instead there was 
something cinched around his waist that looked like a lady's corset. When he got closer I saw 
it was a back brace. From the look of it I would say, just offhand, that he had changed it last 
somewhere around the time Lyndon Johnson died. 
'What you kids up to?' His voice was shrill and strident. 
'Sir, is this your car?' Arnie asked him. Not much question that it was. The Plymouth was 
parked on the lawn of the postwar tract house from which the old man had issued. The lawn 
was horrible, but it looked positively great with that Plymouth in the foreground for 
perspective. 
'What if it is?' the old guy demanded. 
'I' - Arnie had to swallow - 'I want to buy it. 
The old dude's eyes gleamed. The angry took on his face was replaced by a furtive gleam in 
the eye and a certain hungry sneer around the lips. Then a large resplendent shit-eating grin 
appeared. That was the moment, I think then, just at that moment - when I felt something cold 
and blue inside me. There was a moment - just then - when I felt like slugging Arnie and</p>
      <p class="calibre3">dragging him away. Something came into the old man's eyes. Not just the gleam; it was 
something behind the gleam. 
'Well, you should have said so,' the old guy told Arnie. He stuck out his hand and Arnie 
took it. 'LeBay's the name. Roland D. LeBay. US Army, retired.' 
'Arnie Cunningham.' 
The old sport pumped his hand and sort of waved at me. I was out of the play; he had his 
sucker. Arnie might as well have handed LeBay his wallet. 
How much?' Arnie asked. And then he plunged ahead. 'Whatever you want for her, it's not 
enough.' 
I groaned inside instead of sighing. His chequebook had just joined his wallet. 
For a moment LeBay's grin faltered a little, and his eyes narrowed down suspiciously. I 
think he was evaluating the possibility that he was being put on. He studied Arnie's longing 
face for signs of guile, and then asked the murderously perfect question: 
'Son, have you ever owned a car before?' 
'He owns a Mustang Mach II,' I said quickly. 'His folks bought it for him. It's got a Hurst 
gearbox, a supercharger, and it can boil the road in first gear. It - ' 
'No,' Arnie said quietly. 'I just got my driver's license this spring.' 
LeBay tipped me a brief but crafty gaze and then swung his full attention back to his prime 
target. He put both hands in the small of his back and stretched. I caught a sour whiff of 
sweat. 
'Got a back problem in the Army,' he said. 'Full disability. Doctors could never put it right. 
Anyone ever asks you what's wrong with the world, boys, you tell em it's three things: 
doctors, commies, and nigger radicals. Of the three commies is the worst, closely followed by 
doctors. And if they want to know who told you, tell em Roland D. LeBay. Yessir.' 
He touched the old, scuffed hood of the Plymouth with a kind of bemused love. 
'This here is the best car I ever owned. Bought her in September 1957. Back then, that's 
when you got your new model year, in September. All summer long they'd show you pictures 
of cars under hoods and cars under tarps until you were fair dyin t'know what they looked 
like underneath. Not like now.' His voice dripped contempt for the debased times he had lived 
to see. 'Brand-new, she was. Had the smell of a brand-new car, and that's about the finest 
smell in the world.' 
He considered. 
'Except maybe for pussy.'</p>
      <p class="calibre3">I looked at Arnie, nibbling the insides of my cheeks madly to keep from braying laughter 
all over everything. Arnie looked back at me, astounded. The old man appeared to notice 
neither of us; he was off on his own planet. 
'I was in khaki for thirty-four years,' LeBay told us, still touching the hood of the car. 'Went 
in at sixteen in 1923. 1 et dust in Texas and seen crabs as big as lobsters in some of them 
Nogales whoredens. I saw men with their guts comin out of their ears during Big Two. In 
France I saw that. Their guts was comin out their ears. You believe that, son?' 
'Yessir,' Arnie said. I don't think he'd heard a word LeBay said. He was shifting from foot 
to foot as if he had to go to the bathroom bad. 'About the car, though - ' 
'You go to the University?' LeBay barked suddenly. 'Up there at Horlicks?' 
'Nosir, I go to Libertyville High. 
'Good,' LeBay said grimly. 'Steer clear of colleges. They're full of niggerlovers that want to 
give away the Panama Canal. “Think-tanks,” they call em. “Assholetanks, ” say I.' 
He gazed fondly at the car sitting on its flat tyre, its paintwork mellowing rustily in the late 
afternoon sunlight. 
'Hurt my back in the spring of '57,' he said. 'Army was going to rack and ruin even then. I 
got out just in time. I came on back to Libertyville. Looked over the rolling iron. I took my 
time. Then I walked into Norman Cobb's Plymouth dealership - where the bowling alley is 
now on outer Main Street - and I ordered this here car. I said you get it in red and white, next 
year's model. Red as a fire-engine on the inside. And they did. When I got her, she had a total 
of six miles on the mileometer. Yessir.' 
He spat. 
I glanced over Arnie's shoulder at the mileometer. The glass was cloudy, but I could read 
the damage all the same: 97,432. And six-tenths. Jesus wept. 
'If you love the car so much, why are you selling it?' I asked. 
He turned a milky, rather frightening gaze on me. 'Are you cracking wise on me, son?' 
I didn't answer, but I didn't drop my gaze either. 
After a few moments of eye-to-eye duelling (which Arnie totally ignored; he was running a 
slow and loving hand over one of the back fins), he said, 'Can't drive anymore. Back's gotten 
too bad. Eyes are going the same way.' 
Suddenly I got it - or thought I did. If he had given us the correct dates, he was seventy-one. 
And at seventy, this state makes you start taking compulsory eye exams every year before 
they'll renew your driver's licence. LeBay had either failed his eye exam or was afraid of 
failing. Either way, it came to the same thing. Rather than submit to that indignity, he had put 
the Plymouth up. And after that, the, car had gotten old fast.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">'How much do you want for it?' Arnie asked again. Oh he just couldn't wait to be 
slaughtered. 
LeBay turned his face up to the sky, appearing to consider it for rain. Then he looked down 
at Arnie again and gave him a large, kindly smile that was far too much like the previous shit-
eating grin for me. 
'I've been asking three hundred,' he said. 'But you seem a likely enough lad. I'll make it two-
fifty for you.' 
'Oh my Christ,' I said. 
But he knew who his sucker was, and he knew exactly how to drive the wedge in between 
us. In the words of my grandfather, he hadn't fallen off a haytruck yesterday. 
'Okay,' he said brusquely. 'If that's how you want it. I got my four-thirty story to watch. 
Edge of Night. Never miss it if I can help it. Nice chinning with you boys. So long.' 
Arnie threw me such a smoking look of pain and anger that I backed off a step. He went 
after the old man and took his elbow. They talked. I couldn't hear it all, but I could see more 
than enough. The old man's pride was wounded. Arnie was earnest and apologetic. The old 
man just hoped Arnie understood that he couldn't stand to see the car that had brought him 
through safe to his golden years insulted. Arnie agreed. Little by little, the old man allowed 
himself to be led back. And again I felt something consciously dreadful about him . . . it was 
as if a cold November wind could think. I can't, put it any better than that. 
'If he says one more word, I wash my hands of the whole thing,' LeBay said, and cocked a 
horny, calloused thumb at me. 
'He won't, he won't,' Arnie said hastily. 'Three hundred, did you say?' 
'Yes, I believe that was - ' 
'Two-fifty was the quoted price,' I said loudly. 
Arnie looked stricken, afraid the old man would walk away again, but LeBay was taking no 
chances. The fish was almost out of the pond now 
'Two-fifty would do it, I guess,' LeBay allowed. He glanced my way again, and I saw that 
we had an understanding - he didn't like me and I didn't like him. 
To my ever-increasing horror, Arnie pulled his wallet out and began thumbing through it. 
There was silence among the three of us. LeBay looked on. I looked away at a little kid who 
was trying to kill himself on a puke-green skateboard. Somewhere a dog barked. Two girls 
who looked like eighth- or ninth-graders went past, giggling and holding clutches of library 
books to their blooming chests. I had only one hope left for getting Arnie out of this; it was 
the day before payday. Given time, even twenty-four hours, this wild fever might pass. Arnie 
was beginning to remind me of Toad, of Toad Hall.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">When I looked back, Arnie and LeBay were looking at two fives and six ones - all that had 
been in his wallet, apparently. 
'How about a cheque?' Arnie asked. 
LeBay offered Arnie a dry smile and said nothing 
'It's a good cheque,' Arnie protested. It would be, too. We had been working all summer for 
Carson Brothers on the I-376 extension, the one which natives of the Pittsburgh area firmly 
believe will never be really finished. Arnie sometimes declared that Penn-DOT had begun 
taking bids on the I-376 work shortly after the Civil War ended. Not that either of us had any 
right to complain; a lot of kids were either working for slave wages that summer or not 
working at all. We were making good money, even clocking some overtime. Brad Jeffries, 
the job foreman, had been frankly dubious about taking a runt like Arnie on, but had finally 
allowed that he could use a flagman; the girl he had been planning to hire had gotten herself 
pregnant and had run off to get married. So Arnie had started off flagging in June but had 
gotten into the harder work little by little, running mostly on guts and determination. It was 
the first real job he'd ever had, and he didn't want to screw it up. Brad was reasonably 
impressed, and the summer sun had even helped Arnie's erupting complexion a little. Maybe 
it was the ultraviolet. 
'I'm sure it's a good cheque, son,' LeBay said, 'but I gotta make a cash deal. You 
understand.' 
I didn't know if Arnie understood, but I did. It would be too easy to stop payment on a local 
cheque if this rustbucket Plymouth threw a rod or blew a piston on the way home. 
'You can call the bank,' Arnie said, starting to sound desperate. 
'Nope,' LeBay said, scratching his armpit above the scabrous brace. 'It's going on five-
thirty. Bank's long since closed.' 
'A deposit, then,' Arnie said, and held out the sixteen dollars. He looked positively wild. It 
may be that you're having-trouble believing a kid who was almost old enough to vote could 
have gotten himself so worked up over an anonymous old clunk in the space of fifteen 
minutes. I was having some trouble believing it myself. Only Roland D. LeBay seemed not to 
be having trouble with it, and I supposed it was because at his age he had seen everything. It 
was only later that I came to believe that his odd sureness might come from other sources. 
Either way, if any milk of human kindness had ever run in his veins, it had curdled to sour 
cream long ago. 
'I'd have to have at least ten per cent down,' LeBay said. The fish was out of the water; in a 
moment it would be netted. 'If I had ten per cent, I'd hold her for twenty-four hours.' 
'Dennis,' Arnie said. 'Can you loan me nine bucks until tomorrow?' 
I had twelve in my-own wallet, and no particular place to' go. Day after day of spreading 
sand and digging trenches for culverts had done wonders when it came to getting ready for</p>
      <p class="calibre3">football practice, but I had no social life at all. Lately I hadn't even been assaulting the 
ramparts of my cheerleader girlfriend's body in the style to which she had become 
accustomed. I was rich but lonely. 
'Come on over here and let's see,' I said. 
LeBay's brow darkened, but he could see he was stuck with my input, like it or not. His 
frizzy white hair blew back and forth in the mild breeze. He kept one hand possessively on 
the Plymouth's hood. 
Arnie and I walked back toward where my car, a '75 Duster, was parked at the kerb. I put 
an arm around Arnie's shoulders. For some reason I remembered the two of us up in his room 
on a rainy autumn day when we were both no more than six years old - cartoons flickering on 
an ancient black-and-white TV as we coloured with old Crayolas from a dented coffee can. 
The image made me feel sad and a little scared. I have days, you know, when it seems to me 
that six is an optimum age, and that's why it only lasts about 7.2 seconds in real time. 
'Have you got it, Dennis? I'll get it back to you tomorrow afternoon.' 
'Yeah, I've got it, ' I said. 'But what in God's name are you doing, Arnie? That old fart has 
got total disability, for Christ's sake. He doesn't need the money and you're not a charitable 
institution.' 
'I don't get it. What are you talking about?' 
'He's screwing you. He's screwing you for the simple pleasure of it. If he took that car to 
Darnell's, he couldn't get fifty dollars for parts. It's a piece of shit.' 
'No. No, it isn't.' Without the bad complexion, my friend Arnie would have looked 
completely ordinary. But God gives everyone at least one good feature, I think, and with 
Arnie it was his eyes. Behind the glasses that usually obscured them they were a fine and 
intelligent grey, the colour of clouds on an overcast autumn day. They could be almost 
uncomfortably sharp and probing when something was going on that he was interested in, but 
now they were distant and dreaming. 'It's not a piece of shit at all.' 
That was when I really began to understand it was more than just Arnie suddenly deciding 
he wanted a car. He had never even expressed an interest in owning one before; he was 
content to ride with me and chip in for gas or to pedal his three-speed. And it wasn't as if he 
needed a car so he could step out; to the best of my knowledge Arnie had never had a date in 
his life. This was something different. It was love, or something like it. 
I said, 'At least get him to start it for you, Arnie. And get the hood up. There's a puddle of 
oil underneath. I think the block might be cracked. I really think - ' 
'Can you loan me the nine?' His eyes were fixed on mine. I gave up. I took out my wallet 
and gave him the nine dollars. 
'Thanks, Dennis,' he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">'Your funeral, man.' 
He took no notice. He put my nine with his sixteen and went back to where LeBay stood by 
the car. He handed the money over and LeBay counted it carefully, wetting his thumb. 
'I'll only hold it for twenty-four hours, you understand,' LeBay said. 
'Yessir, that'll be fine,' Arnie said. 
'I'll just go in the house and write you out a receipt,' he said. 'What did you say your name 
was, soldier?' 
Arnie smiled a little. 'Cunningham. Arnold Cunningham.' 
LeBay grunted and walked across his unhealthy lawn to his back door. The outer door was 
one of those funky aluminium combination doors with a scrolled letter in the centre - a big L 
in this case. 
The door slammed behind him. 
'The guy's weird, Arnie. The guy is really fucking w - ' 
But Arnie wasn't there. He was sitting behind the wheel of the car. That same sappy 
expression was on his face. 
I went around to the front and found the hood release. I pulled it, and the hood went up with 
a rusty scream that made me think of the sound effects you hear on some of those haunted-
house records. Flecks of metal sifted down. The battery was an old Allstate, and the terminals 
were so glooped up with green corrosion that you couldn't tell which was positive and which 
was negative. I pulled the air cleaner and looked glumly into a four-barrel carb as black as a 
mineshaft. 
I lowered the hood and went back to where Arnie was sitting, running his hand along the 
edge of the dashboard over the speedometer, which was calibrated up to an utterly absurd 120 
miles per hour. Had cars ever really gone that fast ? 
'Arnie, I think the engine block's cracked. I really do. This car is lunch, my friend. It's just 
total lunch. If you want wheels, we can find you something a lot better than this for two-fifty. 
I mean it. A lot better.' 
'It's twenty years old,' he said. 'Do you realize a car is officially an antique when it's twenty 
years old?' 
'Yeah,' I said. 'The junkyard behind Darnell's is full of official antiques, you know what I 
mean?' 
'Dennis - ' 
The door banged. LeDay was coming back. it was just as well; further discussion would 
have been meaningless, I may not be the world's most sensitive human being, but when the</p>
      <p class="calibre3">signals are strong enough, I can pick them up. This was something Arnie felt he had to have, 
and I wasn't going to talk him out of it. I didn't think anyone was going to talk him out of it. 
LeBay handed him the receipt with a flourish. Written on a plain sheet of notepaper in an 
old man's spidery and slightly trembling script was: Received from Arnold Cunningham, 
$25.00 as a 24-hr deposit on 1958 Plymouth, Christine. And below that he had signed his 
name. 
'What's this Christine?' I asked, thinking I might have misread it or he might have 
misspelled it. 
His lips tightened and his shoulders went up a little, as if he expected to be laughed at . . . or 
as if he were daring me to laugh at him. 'Christine,' he said, 'is what I always called her.' 
'Christine,' Arnie said. 'I like it. Don't you, Dennis?' 
Now he was talking about naming the damned thing. It was all getting to be a bit much. 
'What do you think, Dennis, do you like it?' 
'No, I said. 'If you've got to name it, Arnie, why don't you name it Trouble?' 
He looked hurt at that, but I was beyond caring. I went back to my car to wait for him, 
wishing I had taken a different route home.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">2   THE FIRST ARGUMENT 
 
Just tell your hoodlum friends outside,                                                                                                     
You ain't got time to take a ride!                                                                                                                             
(yakety-yak!)                                                                                                                     
Don't talk back!      
                      - The Coasters 
 
I drove Arnie to his house and went in with him to have a piece of cake and a glass of milk 
before going home. It was a decision I repented very quickly. 
Arnie lived on Laurel Street, which is in a quiet residential neighbourhood on the west side 
of Libertyville. As far as that goes, most of Libertyville is quiet and residential. It isn't ritzy, 
like the neighbouring suburb of Fox Chapel (where most of the homes are estates like the 
ones you used to see every week on Columbo), but it isn't like Monroeville, either, with its 
miles of malls, discount tyre warehouses, and dirty book emporiums. There isn't any heavy 
industry -I it's mostly a bedroom community for the nearby universitv. Not ritzv, but sort of 
brainy, at least. 
Arnie had been quiet and contemplative all the way home; I tried to draw him out, but he 
wouldn't be drawn, I asked him what he was going to do with the car. 'Fix it up,' he said 
absently, and lapsed back into silence. 
Well, he had the ability; I wasn't questioning that. He was good with tools, he could listen, 
he could isolate. His hands were sensitive and quick with machinery; it was only when he 
was around other people, particularly girls, that they got clumsy and restless, wanting to 
crack knuckles or jam themselves in his pockets, or, worst of all, wander up to his face and 
run over the scorched-earth landscape of his cheeks and chin and forehead, drawing attention 
to it. 
He could fix the car up, but the money he had earned that summer was earmarked for 
college. He had never owned a car before, and I didn't think he had any idea of the sinister 
way that old cars can suck money. They suck it the way a vampire is supposed to suck blood. 
He could avoid labour costs in most cases by doing the work himself, but the parts alone 
would half-buck him to death before he was through. 
I said some of these things to him, but they just rolled off. His eyes were still distant, 
dreaming. I could not have told you what he was thinking. 
Both Michael and Regina Cunningham were at home she was working one of an endless 
series of goofy jigsaw puzzles (this one was about six thousand different cogs and gears on a 
plain white background; it would have driven me out of my skull in about fifteen minutes), 
and he was playing his recorder in the living room.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">It didn't take long for me to start wishing I had skipped the cake and milk. Arnie told them 
what he had done, showed them the receipt, and they both promptly went through the roof. 
You have to understand that Michael and Regina were University people to the core. They 
were into doing good, and to them that meant being into protest. They had protested in favour 
of integration in the early '60s, had moved on to Vietnam, and when that gave out there was 
Nixon, questions of racial balance in the schools (they could quote you chapter and verse on 
the Ralph Bakke case until you fell asleep), police brutality, and parental brutality. Then there 
was the talk - all the talk. They were almost as much into talking as they were into protesting. 
They were ready to take part in an all-night bull-session on the space programme or a teach-
in on the ERA or a seminar on possible alternatives to fossil fuels at the drop of an opinion. 
They had done time on God alone knew how many 'hotlines' - rape hotlines, drug hotlines, 
hotlines where runaway kids could talk to a friend, and good old DIAL HELP, where people 
thinking about suicide could call up and listen to a sympathetic voice say don't do it, buddy, 
you have a social commitment to Spaceship Earth. Twenty or thirty years of university 
teaching and you're prepared to run your gums the way Pavlov's dogs were prepared to 
salivate when the bell rang. I guess you can even get to like it. 
Regina (they insisted I call them by their first names) was forty-five and handsome in a 
rather cold, semi-aristocratic way - that is, she managed to look aristocratic even when she 
was wearing bluejeans, which was most of the time. Her field was English, but of course 
when you teach at the college level, that's never enough; it's like saying 'America' when 
someone asks you where you're from. She had it refined and calibrated like a blip on a radar 
screen. She specialized in the earlier English poets and had done her thesis on Robert 
Herrick. 
Michael was in the history biz. He looked as mournful and melancholy as the music he 
played on his recorder, although mournful and melancholy was not ordinarily a part of his 
makeup. Sometimes he made me think of what Ringo Starr was supposed to have said when 
the Beatles first came to America and some reporter at a press conference asked him if he 
was really as sad as he looked. 'No,' Ringo replied, 'it's just me face.' Michael was like that. 
Also, his thin face and the thick glasses he wore combined to make him look a little like a 
caricature professor in an unfriendly editorial cartoon. His hair was receding and he wore a 
small, fuzzy goatee. 
'Hi, Arnie,' Regina said as we came in. 'Hello, Dennis.' It was just about the last cheerful 
thing she said to either of us that afternoon. 
We said hi and got our cake and milk. We sat in the breakfast nook. Dinner was cooking in 
the oven, and I'm sorry to say so, but the aroma was fairly rank. Regina and Michael had been 
flirting with vegetarianism for some time, and tonight it smelled as if Regina had a good old 
kelp quiche or something on the way. I hoped they wouldn't invite me to stay. 
The recorder music stopped, and Michael wandered out into the kitchen. He was wearing 
bluejean cutoffs and looking as if his best friend had just died.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">'You're late, boys,' he said. 'Anything going down?' He opened the refrigerator door and 
began to root around in it. Maybe the kelp quiche didn't smell so wonderful to him either. 
'I bought a car,' Arnie said, cutting himself another piece of cake. 
'You did what?' his mother cried at once from the other room. She got up too quickly and 
there was a thud as her thighs connected solidly with the edge of the cardtable she did her 
jigsaws on. The thud was followed by the rapid patter of pieces falling to the floor. That was 
when I started to wish I had just gone home. 
Michael Cunningham had turned from the refrigerator to stare at his son, holding a Granny 
Smith apple in one hand and a carton of plain yoghurt in the other. 
'You're kidding,' he said, and for some absurd reason I noticed for the first time that his 
goatee - which he had worn since 1970 or so - was showing quite a bit of grey. 'Arnie, you're 
kidding, right? Say you're kidding.' 
Regina came in, looking tall and semi -aristocratic and pretty damn mad. She took one 
close look at Arnie's face and knew he wasn't kidding. 'You can't buy a car,' she said. 'What in 
the world are you talking about? You're only seventeen years old. 
Arnie looked slowly from his father by the fridge to his mother in the doorway leading to 
the living room. There was a stubborn, hard expression on his face that I couldn't remember 
ever having seen there before. If he looked that way more often around school, I thought, the 
machine-shop kids wouldn't be so apt to push him around. 
'Actually, you're wrong,' he said. 'I can buy it with no trouble at all. I couldn't finance it, but 
buying it for cash presents no problems. Of course, registering a car at seventeen is 
something else entirely. For that I need your permission.' 
They were looking at him with surprise, uneasiness, and - I saw this last and felt a sinking 
sensation in my belly - rising anger. For all their liberal thinking and their commitment to the 
farm workers and abused wives and unwed mothers and all the rest, they pretty much 
managed Arnie. And Arnie let himself be managed. 
'I don't think there's any call to talk to your mother that way,' Michael said. He put back the 
yoghurt, held onto the Granny Smith, and slowly closed the fridge door. 'You're too young to 
have a car.' 
'Dennis has one,' Arnie said promptly. 
'Say! Wow! Look how late it's getting!' I said. 'I ought to be getting home! I ought to be 
getting home right away! I - ' 
'What Dennis's parents choose to do and what your own choose to do are different things,' 
Regina Cunningham said. I had never heard her voice so cold. Never. 'And you had no right 
to do such a thing without consulting your father and me about</p>
      <p class="calibre3">'Consult you!' Arnie roared suddenly. He spilled his milk. There were big veins standing 
out on his neck in cords. 
Regina took a step backward, her jaw dropping. I would be willing to bet she had never 
been roared at by her ugly-duckling son in her entire life. Michael looked just as 
flabbergasted. They were getting a taste of what I had already felt - for inexplicable reasons 
of his own, Arnie had finally happened on something he really wanted. And God help anyone 
who got in his way. 
'Consult you! I've consulted you on every damn thing I've ever done! Everything was a 
committee meeting, and if it was something I didn't want to do, I got outvoted two to one! 
But this is no goddam committee meeting. I bought a car and that's . . . it!' 
'It most certainly is not it,' Regina said. Her lips had thinned down, and oddly (or perhaps 
not) she had stopped looking just semi-aristocratic; now she looked like the Queen of 
England or someplace, jeans and all. Michael was out of it for the time being. He looked 
every bit as bewildered and unhappy as I felt, and I knew an instant of sharp pity for the man. 
He couldn't even go home to dinner to get away from it; he was home. Here it was a raw 
power-struggle between the old guard and the young guard, and it was going to be decided 
the way those things almost always are, with a monstrous overkill of bitterness and acrimony. 
Regina was apparently ready for that even if Michael wasn't. But I wanted no part of it. I got 
up and headed for the door. 
'You let him do this?' Regina asked, She looked at me haughtily, as if we'd never laughed 
together or baked pies together or gone on family camp-outs together, 'Dennis, I'm surprised 
at you.' 
That stung me. I had always liked Arnie's mom well enough, but I had never completely 
trusted her, at least not since something that had happened when I was eight years old or so. 
Arnie and I had ridden our bikes downtown to take in a Saturday afternoon movie. On the 
way back, Arnie had fallen off his bike while swerving to avoid a dog and had jobbed his leg 
pretty good. I rode him home double on my bike, and Regina took him to the emergency 
room, where a doctor put in half a dozen stitches. And then, for some reason, after it was all 
over and it was clear that Arnie was going to be perfectly fine, Regina turned on me and gave 
me the rough side of her tongue. She read me out like a top sergeant. When she finished, I 
was shaking all over and nearly crying - what the hell, I was only eight, and there had been a 
lot of blood. I can't remember chapter and verse of that bawling-out, but the overall feeling it 
left me with was disturbing. As best I remember, she started out by accusing me of not 
watching him closely enough - as if Arnie were much younger instead of almost exactly my 
own age - and ended up saying (or seeming to say) that it should have been me. 
This sounded like the same thing all over again - Dennis, you weren't watching him closely 
enough - and I got angry myself. My wariness of Regina was probably only part of it, and to 
be completely honest, probably only the small part. When you're a kid (and after all, what is 
seventeen but the outermost limit of kidhood?), you tend to be on the side of other kids. You</p>
      <p class="calibre3">know with a strong and unerring instinct that if you don't bulldoze down a few fences and 
knock some gates flat, your folks - out of the best of intentions - would be happy to keep you 
in the kid corral forever. 
I got angry, but I held onto it as well as I could. 
'I didn't let him do anything,' I said. 'He wanted it, he bought it.' Earlier I might have told 
them that he had done no more than lay down a deposit, but I wasn't going to do that now. 
Now I had my back up. 'I tried to talk him out of it, in fact.' 
'I doubt if you tried very hard,' Regina shot back. She might as well have come out and said 
Don't bullshit me, Dennis, I know you were in it together. There was a flush on her high 
cheekbones, and her eyes were throwing off sparks. She was trying to make me feet eight 
again, and not doing too bad a job. But I fought it. 
'You know, if you got all the facts, you'd see this isn't much to get hot under the collar 
about. He bought it for two hundred and fifty dollars, and - ' 
'Two hundred and fifty dollars!' Michael broke in. 'What kind of car can you get for two 
hundred and fifty dollars?' His previous uncomfortable disassociation - if that's what it had 
been, and not just simple shock at the sound of his quiet son's voice raised in protest - was 
gone. It was the price of the car that had gotten to him. And he looked at his son with an open 
contempt that sickened me a little. I'd like to have kids myself someday, and if I do, I hope I 
can leave that particular expression out of my repertoire. 
I kept telling myself to just stay cool, that it wasn't my affair or my fight, nothing to get hot 
under the collar about . . . but the cake I had eaten was sitting in the centre of my stomach in 
a large sticky glob and my skin felt too hot. The Cunninghams had been my second family 
since I was a little kid, and I could feel all the distressing physical symptoms of a family 
quarrel inside myself. 
'You can learn a lot about cars when you're fixing up art old one,' I said. I suddenly sounded 
like a loony imitation of LeBay to myself. 'And it'll take a lot of work before it's even street-
legal.' (If it ever is, I thought.) 'You could look at it as a . . . a hobby . . . ' 
'I look upon it as madness,' Regina said. 
Suddenly I just wanted to get out. I suppose that if the emotional vibrations in the room 
hadn't been getting so heavy, I might have found it funny. I had somehow gotten into the 
position of defending Arnie's car when I thought the whole thing was preposterous to begin 
with. 
'Whatever you say,' I muttered. 'Just leave me out of it. I'm going home.' 
'Good,' Regina snapped. 
'That's it,' Arnie said tonelessly. He stood up. 'I'm getting the fuck out of here.'</p>
      <p class="calibre3">Regina gasped, and Michael blinked as if he had been slapped. 
'What did you say?' Regina managed. 'What did you - ' 
'I don't get what you're so upset about,' Arnie told them in an eerie, controlled voice, 'but 
I'm not going to stick around and listen to a lot of craziness from either of you. 
'You wanted me in the college courses, I'm there.' He looked at his mother. 'You wanted me 
in the chess club instead of the school band; okay, I'm there too. I've managed to get through 
seventeen years without embarrassing you in front of the bridge club or landing in jail.' 
They were staring at him, wide-eyed, as if one of the kitchen walls had suddenly grown lips 
and started to talk. 
Arnie looked at them, his eyes odd and white and dangerous. 'I'm telling you, I'm going to 
have this. This one thing.' 
'Arnie, the insurance - ' Michael began. 
'Stop it!' Regina shouted. She didn't want to start talking about the specific problems 
because that was the first step on the road to possible acceptance; she simply wanted to crush 
the rebellion under her heel, quickly and completely. There are moments when adults disgust 
you in ways they would never understand; I believe that, you know. I had one of those 
moments then, and it only made me feel worse. When Regina shouted at her husband, I saw 
her as both vulgar and scared, and because I loved her, I had never wanted to see her either 
way. 
Still I remained in the doorway, wanting to leave but unhealthily fascinated by what was 
going on - the first full-scale argument in the Cunningham family that I had ever seen, maybe 
the first ever. And it surely was a wowser, at least ten on the Richter scale. 
'Dennis, you'd better leave while we thrash this out,' Regina said grimly. 
'Yes,' I said. 'But don't you see, you're making a mountain out of a molehill. This car - 
Regina . . . Michael - if you could see it . . . it probably goes from zero to thirty in twenty 
minutes, if it moves at all.' 
'Dennis! Go!' 
I went. 
As I was getting into my Duster, Arnie came out the back door, apparently meaning to 
make good on his threat to leave. His folks came after him, now looking worried as well as 
pissed off. I could understand a little bit how they felt. It had been as sudden as a cyclone 
touching down from a clear blue sky. 
I keyed the engine and backed out into the quiet street. A lot had surely happened since the 
two of us had punched out at four o'clock, two hours ago. Then I had been hungry enough to</p>
      <p class="calibre3">eat almost anything (kelp quiche excepted). Now my stomach was so roiled I felt as if I 
would barf up anything I swallowed. 
When I left, the three of them were standing in the driveway in front of their two-car I 
garage (Michael's Porsche and Regina's Volvo wagon were snuggled up inside - they got 
their cars, I remember thinking, a little meanly; what do they care), still arguing. 
That's it, I thought, now feeling a little sad as well as upset. They'll beat him down and 
LeBay will have his twenty-five dollars and that '58 Plymouth will sit there for another 
thousand years or so. They had done similar things to him before. Because he was a loser. 
Even his parents knew it. He was intelligent, and when you got past the shy and wary 
exterior, he was humorous and thoughtful and . . . sweet, I guess, is the word I'm fumbling 
around for. 
Sweet, but a loser. 
His folks knew it as well as the machine-shop white-soxers who yelled at him in the halls 
and thumb-rubbed his glasses. 
They knew he was a loser and they would beat him down. 
That's what I thought. But that time I was wrong.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">3  THE MORNING AFTER 
 
My poppa said 'Son,                                                                                                                    
You're gonna drive me to drink                                                                        
If you don't quit drivin that                                                                                                                        
Hot-rod Lincoln.' 
- Charlie Ryan 
 
I cruised by Arnie's house the next morning at 6:30 AM. and just parked at the kerb, not 
wanting to go in even though his mother and father would still be in bed - there had been too 
many bad vibes flying around in that kitchen the evening before for me to feel comfortable 
about the usual doughnut and coffee before work. 
Arnie didn't come out for almost five minutes, and I started to wonder if maybe he hadn't 
made good on his threat to just take off. Then the back door opened and he came down the 
driveway, his lunch bucket banging against one leg. 
He got in, slammed the door, and said, 'Drive on, Jeeves.' This was one of Arnie's standard 
witticisms when he was in a good humour. 
I drove on, looked at him cautiously, almost decided to say something, and then decided I 
better wait for him to start . . . if he had anything to say at all. 
For a long time it seemed that he didn't. We drove most of the way to work with no 
conversation between us at all, nothing but the sound of WMDY, the local rock-and-soul 
station. Arnie beat time absently against his leg. 
At last he said, 'I'm sorry you had to be in on that last night, man.' 
'That's okay, Arnie.' 
'Has it ever occurred to you,' he said abruptly, 'that parents are nothing but overgrown kids 
until their children drag them into adulthood? Usually kicking and screaming?' 
I shook my head. 
'Tell you what I think,' he said. We were coming up on the construction site now; the 
Carson Brothers trailer was only two rises over. The traffic this early was light and 
somnolent. The sky was a sweet peach colour. 'I think that part of being a parent is trying to 
kill your kids.' 
'That sounds very rational,' I said. 'Mine are always trying to kill me. Last night it was my 
mother sneaking in with a pillow and putting it over my face. Night before that it was Dad</p>
      <p class="calibre3">chasing my sister and me around with a screwdriver.' I was kidding, but I wondered what 
Michael and Regina might think if they could hear this rap. 
'I know it sounds a little crazy at first,' Arnie said, unperturbed, 'but there are lots of things 
that sound nuts until you really consider them. Penis envy. Oedipal conflicts. The Shroud of 
Turin.' 
'Sounds like horseshit to me,' I said. 'You had a fight with your folks, that's all.' 
'I really believe it, though,' Arnie said pensively. 'Not that they know what they're doing; I 
don't believe that at all. And do you know why?' 
'Do tell,' I said. 
'Because as soon as you have a kid, you know for sure that you're going to die. When you 
have a kid, you see your own gravestone.' 
'You know what, Arnie?' 
'What?' 
'I think that's fucking gruesome" I said, and we both burst out laughing. 
'I don't mean it that way,' he said. 
We pulled into the parking lot and I turned off the engine. We sat there for a moment or 
two. 
'I told them I'd opt out of the college courses,' he said. 'Told them I'd sign up for VT right 
across the board.' 
VT was vocational training. The same sort of thing the reform-school boys get, 'except of 
course they don't go home at night. They have what you might call a compulsory live-in 
programme 
'Arnie,' I began, unsure of just how to go on. The way this thing had blown up out of 
nothing still freaked me out. 'Arnie, you're still a minor. They have to sign your programme - 
' 
'Sure, of course,' Arnie said. He smiled at me humourlessly, and in that cold dawn light he 
looked at once older and much, much younger . . . like a cynical baby, somehow. 'They have 
the power to cancel my entire programme for another year, if they want to, and substitute 
their own. They could sign me up for Home Ec and World of Fashion, if they wanted to. The 
law says they can do it. But no law says they can make me pass what they pick.' 
That brought it home to me - the distance he had gone, I mean. How could that old clunker 
of a car have come to mean so much to him so damned fast? In the following days that 
question kept coming at me in different ways, the way I've always imagined a fresh grief 
would. When Arnie told Michael and Regina he meant to have it, he sure hadn't been kidding.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">He had gone right to that place where their expectations for him lived the most strongly, and 
he had done it with a ruthless expediency that surprised me. I'm not sure that lesser tactics 
would have worked against Regina, but that Arnie had actually been able to do it surprised 
me. In fact, it surprised the shit out of me. What it boiled down to was if Arnie spent his 
senior year in VT, college went out the window. And to Michael and Regina, that was an 
impossibility. 
'So they just . . . gave up?' It was close to punch-in time, but I couldn't let this go until I 
knew everything. 
'Not just like that, no. I told them I'd find garage space for it and that I wouldn't try to have 
it inspected or registered until I had their approval.' 
'Do you think you're going to get that'?' 
He flashed me a grim smile that was somehow both confident and scary. It was the smile of 
a bulldozer operator lowering the blade of a D-9 Cat in front of a particularly difficult stump. 
'I'll get it,' he said. 'When I'm ready, I'll get it.' 
And you know what? I believed he would.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">4   ARNIE GETS MARRIED 
 
I remember the day                                                                                                                             
When I chose her over all those other                                                                                             
.          junkers,                                                                                                                             
Thought I could tell                                                                                                                    
Under the coat of rust she was gold,                                                                                                     
No clunker . . . 
    - The Beach Boys 
 
We could have had two hours of overtime that Friday evening, but we declined it. We 
picked up our cheques in the office and drove down to the Libertyville branch of Pittsburgh 
Savings and Loan and cashed them. I dumped most of mine into my savings account, put fifty 
into my chequeing account (just having one of those made me feel disquietingly adult - the 
feeling, I suppose, wears off), and held onto twenty in cash. 
Arnie drew all of his in cash. 
'Here,' he said, holding out a ten-spot 
'No,' I said. 'You hang onto it, man. You'll need penny of it before you're through with that 
clunk.' 
'Take it,' he said. 'I pay my debts, Dennis.' 
'Keep it. Really.' 
'Take it.' He held the money out inexorably. 
I took it. But I made him take out the dollar he had coming back. He didn't want to do that. 
Driving across town to LeBay's tract house, Arnie got more jittery, playing the radio too 
loud, beating boogie riffs first on his thighs and then on the dashboard. Foreigner came on, 
singing 'Dirty White Boy.' 
'Story of my life, Arnie my man,'! said, and he laughed too loud and too long. 
He was acting like a man waiting for his wife to have a baby. At last I guessed he was 
scared LeBay had sold the car out from under him. 
'Arnie,' I said, 'stay cool. It'll be there.' 
'I'm cool, I'm cool,' he said, and offered me a large, glowing, false smile. His complexion 
that day was the worst I ever saw it, and I wondered (not for the first time, or the last) what it</p>
      <p class="calibre3">must be like to be Arnie Cunningham, trapped behind that oozing face from second to second 
and minute to minute and . . . 
'Well, just stop sweating. You act like you're going to make lemonade in your pants before 
we get there.' 
'I'm not,' he said, and beat another quick, nervous riff on the dashboard just to show me 
how nervous he wasn't. 'Dirty White Boy' by Foreigner gave way to 'Jukebox Heroes' by 
Foreigner. It was Friday afternoon, and the Block Party Weekend had started on FM-104. 
When I look back on that year, my senior year, it seems to me that I could measure it out in 
blocks of rock . . . and an escalating, dreamlike sense of terror. 
'What exactly is it?' I asked. 'What is it about this car?' 
He sat looking out at Libertyville Avenue without saying anything for a long time, and then 
he turned off the radio with a quick snap, cutting off Foreigner in mid-flight. 
'I don't know exactly,' he said. 'Maybe it's because for the first time since I was eleven and 
started getting pimples, I've seen something even uglier than I am. Is that what you want me 
to say? Does that let you put it in a neat little category?' 
'Hey, Arnie, come on,' I said. 'This is Dennis here remember me?' 
'I remember,' he said. 'And we're still friends, right?' 
'Sure, last time I checked. But what has that got to do with - ' 
'And that means we don't have to lie to each other, or at least I think that's what it's 
supposed to mean. So I got to tell you, maybe it's not all jive. I know what I am. I'm ugly. I 
don't make friends easily. I . . . alienate people somehow. I don't mean to do it, but somehow 
I do. You know?' 
I nodded with some reluctance. As he said, we were friends, and that meant keeping the 
bullshit to a bare minimum. 
He nodded back, matter-of-factly. 'Other people - ' he said, and then added carefully, 'you, 
for instance, Dennis don't always understand what that means. It changes how you look at the 
world when you're ugly and people laugh at you. It makes it hard to keep your sense of 
humour. It plugs up your sinuses. Sometimes it makes it a little hard to stay sane.' 
'Well, I can dig that. But - ' 
'No,' he said quietly. 'You can't dig it. You might think you can, but you can't. Not really. 
But you like me, Dennis - ' 
'I love you, man,' I said. 'You know that.' 
'Maybe you do,' he said. 'And I appreciate it. if you do you know it's because there's 
something else - something underneath the zits and my stupid face - '</p>
      <p class="calibre3">'Your face isn't stupid,' Arnie,' I said. 'Queer-looking, maybe, but not ' stupid.' 
'Fuck you,' he said, smiling. 
'And de cayuse you rode in on, Range Rider.' 
'Anyway, that car's like that. There's something underneath. Something else. Something 
better. I see it, that's all.' 
'Do you?' 
'Yeah, Dennis,' he said quietly. 'I do.' 
I turned onto Main Street. We were getting close to LeBay's now. And suddenly I had a 
truly nasty idea. Suppose Arnie's father had gotten one of his friends or students to beat his 
feet over to LeBay's house and buy that car out from under his son? A touch Machiavellian, 
you might say, but Michael Cunningham's mind was more than a little devious. His specialty 
was military history. 
'I saw that car - and I felt such an attraction to it . . . I can't explain it very well even to 
myself. But . . . ' 
He trailed off, those grey eyes looking dreamily ahead. 
'But I saw I could make her better,' he said. 
'Fix it up, you mean?' 
'Yeah . . . well, no. That's too impersonal. You fix tables, chairs, stuff like that. The 
lawnmower when it won't start. And ordinary cars.' 
Maybe he saw my eyebrows go up. He laughed, anyway - a little defensive laugh. 
'Yeah, I know how that sounds,' he said. 'I don't even like to say it, because I know how it 
sounds. But you're a friend, Dennis. And that means a minimum of bullshit. I don't think she's 
any ordinary car. I don't know why I think that . . . but I do.' 
I opened my mouth to say something I might later have regretted, something about trying to 
keep things in perspective or maybe even about avoiding obsessive behaviour. But just then 
we swung around the corner and onto LeBay's street. 
Arnie pulled air into his lungs in a harsh, hurt gasp. 
There was a rectangle of grass on LeBay's lawn that was even yellower, balder, and uglier 
than the rest of his lawn. Near one end of that patch there was a diseased-looking oil-spill that 
had sunk into the ground and killed everything that had once grown there. That rectangular 
piece of ground was so fucking gross I almost believe that if you looked at it for too long 
you'd go blind. 
It was where the '58 Plymouth had been standing yesterday.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">The ground was still there but the Plymouth was' gone. 
'Arnie,' I said as I swung my car in to the kerb, 'take it easy. Don't go off half-cocked, for 
Christ's sake.' 
He paid not a bit of attention. I doubt if he had even heard me. His face had gone pale. The 
blemishes covering it stood out in purplish, glaring relief. He had the passenger door of my 
Duster open and was lunging out of the car even before it had stopped moving. 
'Arnie - ' 
'It's my father,' he said in anger and dismay. 'I smell that bastard all over this.' 
And he was gone, running across the lawn to LeBay's door. 
I got out and hurried after him, thinking that this crazy shit was never going to end. I could 
hardly believe I had just heard Arnie Cunningham call Michael a bastard. 
Arnie was raising his fist to hammer on the door when it opened. There stood Roland D. 
LeBay himself. Today he was wearing a shirt over his back brace. He looked at Arnie's 
furious face with a benignly avaricious smile. 
'Hello, son,' he said. 
'Where is she?' Arnie raged. 'We had a deal! Dammit we had a deal! I've got a receipt!' 
'Simmer down,' LeBay said. He saw me, standing on the bottom step with my hands shoved 
down in my pockets. 'What's wrong with your friend, son?' 
'The car's gone,' I said. 'That's what's wrong with him.' 
'Who bought it?' Arnie shouted. I'd never seen him so mad. If he had had a gun right then, I 
believe he would have put it to LeBay's temple. I was fascinated in spite of myself. It was as 
if a rabbit had suddenly turned carnivore. God help me, I even wondered fleetingly if he 
might not have a brain tumour. 
'Who bought it?' LeBay repeated mildly. 'Why nobody has yet', son. But you got a lien on 
her. I backed her into the garage, that's all. I put on the spare and changed the oil.' He preened 
and then offered us both an absurdly magnanimous smile. 
'You're a real sport,' I said. 
Arnie stared at him uncertainly, then turned his head creakily to took at the closed door of 
the modest one-car garage that was attached to the house by a breezeway. The breezeway, 
like everything else around LeBay's place, had seen better days. 
'Besides, I didn't want to leave her out once you'd laid some money down on her,' he said. 
'I've had some trouble with one or two of the folks on this street. One night some kid threw a 
rock at my car. Oh yeah, I got some neighbours straight out of the old AB.'</p>
      <p class="calibre3">'What's that?' I asked. 
'The Asshole Brigade, son.' 
He swept the far side of the street with a baleful sniper's glance, taking in the neat, gas-
thrifty commuters cars now home from work, the children playing tag and jumprope, the 
people sitting out on their porches and having drinks in the first of the evening cool. 
'I'd like to know who it was threw that rock,' he said softly. 'Yessir, I'd surely like to know 
who it was.' 
Arnie cleared his throat. 'I'm sorry I gave you a hard time.' 
'Don't worry,' LeBay said bridkly. 'Like to see a fellow stand up for what's his . . . or what's 
almost his. You bring the money, kid?' 
'Yes, I have it.' 
'Well, come on in the house. You and your friend both. I'll sign her over to you, and we'll 
have a glass of beer to celebrate.' 
'No thanks,' I said. 'I'll stay out here, if that's okay.' 
'Suit yourself, son,' LeBay said . . . and winked. To this day I have no idea exactly what that 
wink was supposed to mean. They went in, and the door banged shut behind them. The fish 
had been netted and was about to be cleaned. 
Feeling depressed, I walked through the breezeway to the garage and tried the door. It ran 
up easily and exhaled the same odours I had smelled when I opened the Plymouth's door 
yesterday - oil, old upholstery, the accumulated heat of a long summer. 
Rakes and a few old garden implements were ranked along one wall. On the other was a 
very old hose, a bicycle pump, and an ancient golf-bag filled with rusty clubs. In the centre, 
nose outward, sat Arnie's car, Christine, looking a mile long in this day and age when even 
Cadillacs look squeezed together and boxy. The spiderweb snarl of cracks at the side of the 
windscreen caught the light and turned it to a dull quicksilver. Some kid with a rock, as 
LeBay had said - or maybe a little accident coming home from the VFW hall after a night of 
drinking boilermakers and telling stories about the Battle of the Bulge or Pork Chop Hill. The 
good old days, when a man could see Europe, the Pacific, and the mysterious East from 
behind the sight of a bazooka. Who knew . . . and what did it matter'? Either way, it was not 
going to be easy, finding a replacement for a big wrap windscreen like that. 
Or cheap. 
Oh, Arnie, I thought. Man, you are getting in so deep. 
The flat LeBay had taken off rested against the wall. I got down on my hands and knees and 
peered under the car. A fresh oil-stain was starting to form there, black against the brownish</p>
      <p class="calibre3">ghost of an older, wider stain that had sunk into the concrete over a period of years. It did 
nothing to alleviate my depression. The block was cracked for sure. 
I walked around to the driver's side and as I grasped the handle, I saw a wastecan at the far 
corner of the garage. A large plastic bottle was poking out of the top. The letters SAPPH were 
visible over the rim. 
I groaned. Oh, he had changed the oil, all right. Big of him. He had run out the old - 
whatever was left of it - and had run in a few quarts of Sapphire Motor Oil. This is the stuff 
you can get for $3.50 per recycled five-gallon jug at the Mammoth Mart. Roland D. LeBay 
was a real prince, all right. Roland D. LeBay was all heart. 
I opened the car door and slid in behind the wheel. Now the smell in the garage didn't seem 
quite so heavy, or so freighted with feelings of disuse and defeat. The car's wheel was wide 
and red - a confident wheel. I looked at that amazing speedometer again, that speedometer 
which was calibrated not to 70 or 80 but all the way up to 120 miles an hour. No kilometres 
in little red numbers underneath; when this babe had rolled off the assembly line, the idea of 
going metric had yet to occur to anyone in Washington. No big red 55 on the speedometer, 
either. Back then, gas went for 29.9 a gallon, maybe less if a price-war happened to be going 
on in your town. The Arab oil-embargoes and the double-nickel speed limit had still been 
fifteen years away. 
The good old days, I thought, and had to smile a little. I fumbled down to the left side of the 
seat and found the little button console that would move the seat back and forth and up and 
down (if it still worked, that was). More power to you, to coin a crappy little pun. There was 
air conditioning (that certainly wouldn't work), and cruise control, and a big pushbutton radio 
with lots of chrome - AM only, of course. In 1958, FM was mostly a blank wasteland. 
I put my hands on the wheel and something happened. 
Even now, after much thought, I'm not sure exactly what it was. A vision, maybe - but if it 
was, it sure wasn't any big deal. It was just that for a moment the torn upholstery seemed to 
be gone. The seat covers were whole and smelling pleasantly of vinyl . . . or maybe that smell 
was real leather. The worn places were gone from the steering wheel; the chrome winked 
pleasantly in the summer evening light falling through the garage door. 
Let's go for a ride, big guy, Christine seemed to whisper in the hot summer silence of 
LeBay's garage. Let's cruise. 
And for just a moment it seemed that everything changed. That ugly snarl of cracks in the 
windscreen was gone - or seemed to be. The little swatch of LeBay's lawn that I could see 
was not yellowed, balding, and crabgrassy but a dark, rich, newly cut green. The sidewalk 
beyond it was freshly cemented, not a crack in sight. I saw (or thought I did, or dreamed I 
did) a '57 Cadillac motor by out front. That GM high-stepper was a dark minty green, not a 
speck of rust on her, big gangster whitewall tyres, and hubcaps as deeply reflective as 
mirrors. A Cadillac the size of a boat, and why not? Gas was almost as cheap as tap-water.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">Let's go for a ride, big guy . . . let's cruise. 
Sure, why not? I could pull out and turn toward downtown, toward the old high school that 
was still standing - it wouldn't burn down for another six years, not until 1964 and I could 
turn on the radio and catch Chuck Berry singing 'Maybeliene' or the Everlys doing 'Wake Up 
Little Susie' or maybe Robin Luke wailing 'Susie Darling.' And then I'd . . . 
And then I got out of that car just about as fast as I could. The door opened with a rusty, 
hellish screech, and I cracked my elbow good on one of the garage walls. I pushed the door 
shut (I didn't really even want to touch it, to tell you the truth) and then just stood there 
looking at the Plymouth which, barring a miracle, would soon be my friend Arnie's. I rubbed 
my bruised crazybone. My heart was beating too fast. 
Nothing. No new chrome, no new upholstery. On the other hand, plenty of dents and rust, 
one headlamp missing (I hadn't noticed that the day before), the radio aerial crazily askew. 
And that dusty, dirty smell of age. 
I decided right then that I didn't like my friend Arnie's car. 
I walked out of the garage, glancing back constantly over my shoulder - I don't know why, 
but I didn't like it behind my back. I know how stupid that must sound, but it was how I felt. 
And there it sat with its dented, rusty grille, nothing sinister or even strange, just a very old 
Plymouth automobile with an inspection sticker that had gone invalid on June 1, 1976 - a 
long time ago. 
Arnie and LeBay were coming out of the house. Arnie had a white slip of paper in his hand 
- his bill of sale, I assumed. LeBay's hands were empty; he had already made the money 
disappear. 
'Hope you enjoy her,' LeBay was saying, and for some reason I thought of a very old pimp 
huckstering a very young boy. I felt a surge of real disgust for him - him with his psoriasis of 
the skull and his sweaty back brace. 'I think you will. In time.' 
His slightly rheumy eyes found mine, held there for a second, and then slipped back to 
Arnie. 
'In time,' he repeated. 
'Yessir, I'm sure I will,' Arnie said absently He moved toward the garage like a sleepwalker 
and stood looking at his car. 
'Keys are in her,' LeBay said. 'I'll have to have you take her along. You understand that, 
don't you?' 
'Will she start?'</p>
      <p class="calibre3">'Started for me yesterday evenin,' LeBay said, but his eyes shifted away toward the horizon. 
And then, in the tone of one who has washed his hands of the whole thing: 'Your friend here 
will have a set of jumpers in his boot, I reckon.' 
Well, as a matter of fact I did have a set of jumper cables in my boot, but I didn't much like 
LeBay guessing it. I like him guessing it because . . . I sighed a little. Because I didn't want to 
be involved in Arnie's future relationship with the old clunker he had bought, but I could see 
myself getting dragged in, step by step. 
Arnie had dropped out of the conversation completely. He walked into the garage and got 
into the car. The evening sun was slanting strongly in now, and I saw the little puff of dust 
that went up when Arnie sat down and automatically brushed at the seat of my own pants. For 
a moment he just sat there behind the wheel, hands gripping it loosely, and I felt a return of 
my unease. It was, in a way, as if the car had swallowed him. I told myself to stop it, that 
there was no damn reason for me to be acting like a goosey seventh-grade schoolgirl. 
Then Arnie bent forward a little. The engine began to turn over. I turned and shot LeBay an 
angry, accusatory glance, but he was studying the sky again, as if for rain. 
It wasn't going to start; no way it was going to start. My Duster was in pretty good shape, 
but the two I'd owned before it were clunkers (modified clunkers; neither was in the same 
class as Christine); and I'd become very familiar with that sound on cold winter mornings, 
that slow and tired cranking that meant the battery was scraping the bottom of the barrel. 
Rurr-rurr-rurr . . . rurr. . . rurrr. . . . . . . rurrr . . . . . . . rurr - 
'Don't bother, Arnie,' I said. 'It's not going to fire up.' 
He didn't even raise his head. He turned the key off and then turned it on again. The motor 
cranked with painful, dragging slowness. 
I walked over to LeBay. 'You couldn't even leave it running long enough to build up a 
charge, could you?' I asked. 
LeBay glanced at me from his yellowing, rheumy eyes, said nothing, and then began 
checking the sky for rain again. 
'Or maybe it never started at all. Maybe you just got a couple of friends to come over and 
help you push it into the garage. If an old shit like you has any friends.' 
He looked down at me. 'Son,' he said. 'You don't know everything. You ain't even dry 
behind the ears yet. When you've slogged your way through a couple of wars, like I have - ' 
I said deliberately, Fuck your couple of wars,' and walked toward the garage where Arnie 
was still trying to start his car, Might as well try to drink the Atlantic dry with a straw or ride 
a hot-air balloon to Mars, I thought. 
Rurr . . . . . . . . . . . rurr . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . rurr.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">Pretty soon the last ohm and erg would be sucked out of that old corroded Sears battery, 
and then there would be nothing but that most dismal of all automotive sounds, most 
commonly heard on rainy back roads and deserted highways: the dull, sterile click of the 
solenoid, followed by an awful sound like a death-rattle. 
I opened the driver's side door. 'I'll get my cables,' I said. 
He looked up. 'I think she'll start for me,' he said. 
I felt my lips stretch in a large, unconvincing grin. 'Well, I'll get them, just in case.' 
'Sure, if you want,' he said absently, and then in a voice almost too low to hear he said, 
'Come on, Christine. What do you say?' 
In the same instant, that voice awoke in my head and spoke again - Let's go for a ride, big 
guy . . . let's cruise and I shuddered. 
He turned the key again. What I expected was that dull solenoid click and death-rattle. 
What I heard was the slow crank of the engine suddenly speeding up. The engine caught, ran 
briefly, then quit. Arnie turned the key again. The engine cranked over faster. There was a 
backfire that sounded as loud as a cherry-bomb in the closed space of the garage. I jumped. 
Arnie didn't. He was lost in his own world. 
At this point I would have cursed it a couple of times, just to help it along: Come on, you 
whore is always a good one; Let's go, cocksucker has its merits, and sometimes just a good, 
hearty shit-FIRE! will turn the trick. Most guys I know would do the same; I think it's just 
one of the things you pick up from your father. 
What your mother leaves you is mostly good hardheaded practical advice - if you cut your 
toenails twice a month you won't get so many holes in your socks; put that down, you don't 
know where it's been; eat your carrots, they're good for you - but it's from your father that 
you get the magic, the talismans, the words of power. If the car won't start, curse it . . . and be 
sure you curse it female. If you went seven generations back, you'd probably find one of your 
forebears cursing the goddam bitch of a donkey that stopped in the middle of the tollbridge 
somewhere in Sussex or Prague. 
But Arnie didn't swear at it. He murmured under his breath, 'Come on, doll, what do you 
say?' 
He turned the key. The engine kicked twice, backfired again, and then started up. It 
sounded horrible, as if maybe four of the eight pistons had taken the day off, but he had it 
running. I could hardly believe it, but I didn't want to stand around and discuss it with him. 
The garage was rapidly filling up with blue smoke and fumes. I went outside. 
'That turned out all right, after all, didn't it?' LeBay said. 'And you don't have to risk your 
own precious battery.' He spat. 
I couldn't think of anything to say. To tell you the truth, I felt a little embarrassed.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">The car came slowly out of the garage, looking so absurdly long that it made you want to 
laugh or cry or do something. I couldn't believe how long it looked. It was like an optical 
illusion. And Arnie looked very small behind the wheel. 
He rolled down the window and beckoned me over. We had to raise our voices to make 
ourselves heard clearly that was another thing about Arnie's girl Christine; she had an 
extremely loud and rumbling voice. She was going to have to be Midasized in a hurry. If 
there was anything left of' the exhaust system to attach a silencer to, that was, besides a lot of 
rusty lace. Since Arnie sat down behind the wheel, the little accountant in the automotive 
section or my brain had totted up expenses of about six hundred dollars not including the 
cracked windscreen. God knew how much that might cost to replace. 
'I'm taking her down to Darnell's!' Arnie yelled. 'His ad in the paper says I can park it in one 
of the back bays for twenty dollars a week!' 
'Arnie, twenty a week for one of those back bays is too much!' I bellowed back. 
Here was more robbery of the young and innocent. Darnell's Garage sat next door to a four-
acre automobile wasteland that went by the falsely cheerful name of Darnell's Used Auto 
Parts. I had been there a few times, once to buy a starter for my Duster, once to get a rebuilt 
carb for the Mercury which had been my first car. Will Darnell was a great fat pig of a man 
who drank a lot and smoked long rank cigars, although he was reputed to have a bad 
asthmatic condition. He professed to hate almost every car-owning teenager in Libertyville . . 
. but that didn't keep him from catering to them and rooking them. 
'I know,' Arnie yelled over the bellowing engine. 'But it's only for a week or two, until I 
find a cheaper place. I can't take it home like this, Dennis, my dad and mom would have a 
shit fit!' 
That was certainly true. I opened my mouth to say something else - maybe to beg him again 
to stop this madness before it got completely out of control. Then I shut my mouth again. The 
deal was done. Besides, I didn't want to compete with that bellowing silencer anymore, or 
stand there pulling a lot of evil fried-carbon exhaust into my lungs. 
'All right,' I said. 'I'll follow you.' 
'Good deal,' he said, grinning. 'I'm going by Walnut Street and Basin Drive. I want to stay 
off the main roads.' 
'Okay.' 
'Thanks, Dennis.' 
He dropped the hydramatic transmission into D again, and the Plymouth lurched forward 
two feet and then almost stalled. Arnie goosed the accelerator a little and Christine broke 
dirty wind. The Plymouth crept down LeBay's driveway to the street. When he pushed the 
brake, only one of the tail-lights flashed. My mental automotive accountant relentlessly rang 
up another five dollars.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">He hauled the wheel to the left and pulled out into the street. The remains of the silencer 
scraped rustily at the lowest point of the driveway. Arnie gave it more gas, and the car roared 
like a refugee from the demo derby at Philly Plains. Across the street, people leaned forward 
on their porches or came to their doors to see what was going on. 
Bellowing and snarling, Christine rolled up the street at about ten miles an hour, sending 
out great stinking clouds of blue oilsmoke that hung and then slowly raftered in the mellow 
August evening. 
At the stop sign forty yards up, it stalled. A kid rode past the hulk on his Raleigh, and his 
impudent, brassy shout drifted back to me: 'Put it in a trash-masher, mister!' 
Arnie's closed fist popped out of the window. His middle finger went up as he flipped the 
kid the bird. Another first. I had never seen Arnie flip anyone the bird in my life. 
The starter whined, the motor sputtered and caught. This time there was a whole rattling 
series of backfires. It was as if someone had just opened up with a machine-gun on Laurel 
Drive, Libertyville, USA. I groaned. 
Someone would call the cops pretty soon, reporting a public nuisance, and they would grab 
Arnie for driving an unregistered, uninspected vehicle - and probably for the nuisance charge 
as well. That would not exactly ease the situation at home. 
There was one final echoing bang - it rolled down the street like the explosion of a mortar 
shell - and then the Plymouth turned left on Martin Street, which brought you to Walnut 
about a mile up. The westering sun turned its battered red body briefly to gold as it moved 
out of sight. I saw that Arnie had his elbow cocked out the window. 
I turned to LeBay, mad all over again, ready to give him some more hell. I tell you I felt 
sick inside my heart. But what I saw stopped me cold. 
Roland D. LeBay was crying. 
It was horrible and it was grotesque and most of all it was pitiable. When I was nine, we 
had a cat named Captain Beefheart, and he got hit by a UPS truck. We took him to the vet's - 
my mom had to drive slow because she was crying and it was hard for her to see - and I sat in 
the back with Captain Beef heart. He was in a box, and I kept telling him the vet would save 
him, it was going to be okay, but even a little nine-year-old dumbhead like me could see it 
was never going to be all right for Captain Beefheart again, because some of his guts were 
out and there was blood coming out of his asshole and there was shit in the box and on his fur 
and he was dying. I tried to pet him and he bit my hand, right in the sensitive webbing 
between the thumb and the first finger. The pain was bad; that terrible feeling of pity was 
worse. I had not felt anything like that since then. Not that I was complaining, you 
understand; I don't think people should have feelings like that often. You have a lot of 
feelings like that, and I guess they take you away to the funny-farm to make baskets.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">LeBay was standing on his balding lawn not far from the place where that big patch of oil 
had defoliated everything, and he had this great big old man's snotrag out and his head was 
down and he was wiping his eyes with it. The tears gleamed greasily on his checks, more like 
sweat than real tears. His adam's apple went up and down. 
I turned my head so I wouldn't have to look at him cry and happened to stare straight into 
his one-car garage. Before, it had seemed really full - the stuff along the walls, of course, but 
most of all that huge old car with its double headlights and its wraparound windscreen and its 
acre of hood. Now the stuff along the walls only served to accentuate the garage's essential 
emptiness. It gaped like a toothless mouth. 
That was almost as bad as LeBay. But when I looked back, the old bastard had gotten 
himself under control well, mostly. He had stopped leaking at the eyes and he had stuffed the 
snotrag into the back pocket of his patented old man's pants. But his face was still bleak. Very 
bleak. 
'Well, that's that,' he said hoarsely. 'I'm shot of her, sonny.' 
'MrLeBay,' I said. 'I only wish my friend could make the same statement. If you knew the 
trouble he was in over that rustbucket with his folks - ' 
'Get out of here,' he said, 'You sound like a goddam sheep. Just baa, baa, baa, that's all I 
hear comin out'n your hole. I think your friend there knows more than you do. Go and see if 
he needs a hand.' 
I started down the lawn to my car. I didn't want to hang around LeBay a moment longer. 
'Nothin but baa, baa, baa!' he yelled shrewishly after me, making me think of that old song 
by the Youngbloods - I am a one-note man, I play it all I can  'You don't know half as much 
as you think you do!' 
I got into my car and drove away. I glanced back once as I made the turn onto Martin Street 
and saw him standing there on his lawn, the sunlight gleaming on his bald head. 
As things turned out, he was right. 
I didn't know half as much as I thought I did.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">5   HOW WE GOT TO DARNELL'S 
 
I got a '34 wagon and we call it a woody,                                                                                              
You know she's not very cherry,                                                                                                           
She's an oldy but a goody . . . 
   - Jan and Dean 
 
I drove down Martin to Walnut and turned right, toward Basin Drive. It didn't take long to 
catch up with Arnie. He was pulled into the kerb, and Christine's boot-lid was up. An 
automobile jack so old that it almost looked as if it might once have been used for changing 
wheels on Conestoga wagons was leaning against the crooked back bumper. The right rear 
tyre was flat. 
I pulled in behind him and had no more than gotten out when a young woman waddled 
down towards us from her house, skirting a pretty good collection of plastic-fantastic that was 
planted on her lawn (two pink flamingos, four or five little stone ducks in a line behind a big 
stone mother duck, and a really good plastic wishing well with plastic flowers planted in the 
plastic bucket). She was in dire need of Weight Watchers. 
'You can't leave that junk here,' she said around a mouthful of chewing gum. 'You can't 
leave that junk parked in front of our house, I just hope you know that.' 
'Ma'am,' Arnie said. 'I had a flat tyre, is all. I'll get it out of here just as soon as - ' 
'You can't leave it there and I hope you know that,' she said with a maddening kind of 
circularity. 'My husband'Il be home pretty soon. He don't want no junk car in front of the 
house.' 
'It's not junk,' Arnie said, and something in his tone made her back up a step. 
'You don't want to take that tone of voice to me, sonny this overweight be-bop queen said 
haughtily. 'It don't take much to get my husband mad.' 
'Look,' Arnie began in that same dangerous flat voice he had used when Michael and 
Regina began ganging up on him. I grabbed his shoulder hard. More hassle we didn't need. 
'Thanks, ma'am,' I said. 'We'll get it taken care of right away. We're going to take care of it 
so quick you'll think you hallucinated this car.' 
'You better,' she said, and then hooked a thumb at my Duster. 'And your car is parked in 
front of my driveway.'</p>
      <p class="calibre3">I backed my Duster up. She watched and then joggled back up to her house, where a little 
boy and a little girl were crammed into the doorway. They were pretty porky, too. Each of 
them was eating a nice nourishing Devil Dog. 
'Wassa matta, ma?' the little boy asked. 'Wassa matta that man's car, Ma? Wassa matta?' 
'Shut up,' the be-bop queen said, and hauled both kids back inside. I always like to see 
enlightened parents like that; it gives me hope for the future. 
I walked back to Arnie. 
'Well,' I said, dragging out the only witticism I could think of, 'it's only flat on the bottom, 
Arnie. Right?' 
He smiled wanly. 'I got a slight problem, Dennis,' he said. 
I knew what his problem was; he had no spare Arnie dragged out his wallet again - it hurt 
me to see him do it - and looked inside. 'I got to get a new tyre,' he said. 
'Yeah, I guess you do. A remould - ' 
'No remoulds. I don't want to start out that way.' I didn't say anything, but I glanced back 
toward my Duster. I had two remoulds on it and I thought they were just fine. 
'How much do you think a new Goodyear or Firestone would cost, Dennis?' 
I shrugged and consulted the little automotive accountant, who guessed that Arnie could 
probably get a new no-frills blackwall for around thirty-five dollars. 
He pulled out two twenties and handed them to me. 'If it's more - with the tax and 
everything - I'll pay you back.' 
I looked at him sadly. 'Arnie, how much of your week's pay you got left?' 
His eyes narrowed and shifted away from mine. 'Enough,' he said. 
I decided to try one more time - you must remember that I was only seventeen and still 
under the impression that people could be shown where their best interest lay. 'You couldn't 
get into a nickel poker game,' I said. 'You plugged just about the whole fucking wad into that 
car. Dragging out your wallet is going to become a very familiar action to you, Arnie. Please, 
man. Think it over.' 
His eyes went flinty. It was an expression I had not seen before on his face, and although 
you'll probably think I was the most naive teenager in America, I couldn't really remember 
having seen it on any face before. I felt a mixture of surprise and dismay - I felt the way I 
might have felt if I suddenly discovered I was trying to have a rational conversation with a 
fellow who just happened to be a lunatic. I have seen the expression since, though; I imagine 
you have too. Total shutdown. It's the expression a man gets on his face when you tell him 
the woman he loves is whoring around behind his back.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">'Don't get going on that, Dennis,' he said. 
I threw my hands up in exasperation. 'All right! All right!' 
'And you don't have to go after the damn tyre, either, if you don't want to.' That flinty, 
obdurate, and - so help me, it's true - stupidly stubborn expression was still on his face. 'I'll 
find a way.' 
I started to reply, and I might have said something pretty hot, but then I happened to glance 
to my left. The two porky kids were there at the edge of their lawn. They were astride 
identical Big Wheels, their fingers smeared with chocolate. They were watching us solemnly. 
'No big deal, man,' I said. 'I'll get the tyre.' 
'Only if you want to, Dennis,' he said. 'I know it's getting late.' 
'It's cool,' I said. 
'Mister?' the little boy said, licking chocolate off his fingers. 
'What?' Arnie asked. 
'My mother says that car is poopy.' 
'That's right,' the little girl chimed. 'Poopy-kaka.' 
'Poopy-kaka,' Arnie said. 'Why, that's very perceptive, isn't it, kids? Is your mother a 
philosopher?' 
'No,' the little boy said. 'She's a Capricorn. I'm a Libra. My sister is a - ' 
'I'll be back quick as I can,' I said awkwardly. 
'Sure.' 
'Stay cool.' 
'Don't worry, I'm not going to punch anybody.' 
I trotted to my car. As I slipped behind the wheel I heard the little girl ask Arnie loudly, 
'Why is your face all messy like that, mister?' 
* * * * * 
I drove a mile and a half down to JFK Drive, which according to my mother, who grew up 
in Libertyville used to be at the centre of one of the town's most desirable neighbourhoods 
back around the time Kennedy was killed in Dallas. Maybe renaming old Barnswallow Drive 
for the slain President had been bad luck, because since the early sixties, the neighbourhood 
around the street had degenerated into an exurban strip. There was a drive-in movie, a 
McDonald's, a Burger King, an Arby's, and the Big Twenty Lanes. There were also eight or 
ten service stations, since JFK Drive leads to the Pennsylvania Turnpike.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">Getting Arnie's tyre should have gone lickety-split, but the first two stations I came to were 
those self-service jobbies that don't even sell oil; there's just gas and a marginally retarded 
girl in a booth made of bullet-proof glass who sits in front of a computer console reading a 
National Enquirer and chewing a wad of Bubblicious Gum big enough to choke a Missouri 
mule. 
The third one was a Texaco having a tyre sale. I was able to buy Arnie a blackwall that 
would fit his Plymouth (I could not bring myself then to call her Christine or even think of 
her - it - by that name) for just twenty-eight-fifty plus tax, but there was only one guy 
working there, and he had to put the new tyre on Arnie's wheel-rim and pump gas at the same 
time. The operation stretched out over forty-five minutes. I offered to pump gas for the guy 
while he did it, but he said the boss would shoot him if he heard of it. 
By the time I had the mounted tyre back in my boot and had paid the guy two bucks for the 
job, the early evening light had become the fading purple of late evening. The shadow of each 
bush was long and velvety, and as I cruised slowly back up the street I saw the day's last light 
Streaming almost horizontally through the trash-littered space between the Arby's and the 
bowling alley. That light, so much flooding gold, was nearly terrible in its strange, 
unexpected beauty. 
I was surprised by a choking panic that climbed up in my throat like dry fire. It was the first 
time a feeling like that came over me that year - that long, strange year - but not the last. Yet 
it's hard for me to explain, or even define. It had something to do with realising that it was 
August 11, 1978, that I was going to be a senior in high school next month, and that when 
school started again it meant the end of a long, quiet phase of my life. I was getting ready to 
be a grown-up, and I saw that somehow - saw it for sure, for the first time in that lovely but 
somehow ancient spill of golden light flooding down the alleyway between a bowling alley 
and a roast beef joint. And I think I understood then that what really scares people about 
growing up is that you stop trying on the life-mask and start trying on another one. If being a 
kid is about learning how to live, then being a grown-up is about learning how to die. 
The feeling passed, but in its wake I felt shaken and melancholy. Neither state was much 
like my usual self. 
When I turned back onto Basin Drive I was feeling suddenly removed from Arnie's 
problems and trying to cope with my own - thoughts of growing up had led naturally to such 
gigantic (at least they seemed gigantic to me) and rather unpleasant ideas as college and 
living away from home and trying to make the football team at State with sixty other 
qualified people competing for my position instead of only ten or twelve. So maybe you're 
saying, Big deal, Dennis, I got some news for you: one billion Red Chinese don't give a shit if 
you make the first squad as a college freshman. Fair enough. I'm just trying to say that those 
things seemed really real to me for the first time . . . and really frightening. Your mind takes 
you on trips like that sometimes - and if you don't want to go, it takes you anyway.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">Seeing that the be-pop queen's husband had indeed arrived home, and that he and Arnie 
were standing almost nose to nose, apparently ready to start mixing it up at any second, didn't 
help my mood at all. 
The two little kids still sat solemnly astride their Big Wheels, their eyes shifting back and 
forth from Arnie to Daddy and back again to Arnie like spectators at some apocalyptic tennis 
match where the ref would cheerfully shoot the loser. They seemed to be waiting for the 
moment of combustion when Daddy would flatten my skinny friend and do the Cool Jerk all 
the way up and down his broken body. 
I pulled over quickly and got out, almost running over to them. 
'I'm done talkin atcha face!' Dads bellowed. 'I'm telling you I want it out and I want it out 
right now!' He had a big flattened nose full of burst veins. His cheeks were flushed to the 
colour of new brick, and above his grey twill workshirt, corded veins stood out on his neck. 
'I'm not going to drive it on the rim,' Arnie said. 'I told you that. You wouldn't do it if it was 
yours.' 
'I'll drive you on the rim, Pizza-face,' Daddy said, apparently intent on showing his children 
how big people solve their problems in the Real World. 'You ain't parking your cruddy hotrod 
in front of my house. Don't you aggravate me, kiddo, or you're gonna get hurt.' 
'Nobody's going to get hurt,' I said. 'Come on, mister. Give us a break.' 
Arnie's eyes shifted gratefully to me, and I saw how scared he had been - how scared he 
still was. Always an out, he knew there was something about him, God knew what, that made 
a certain type of guy want to pound the living shit out of him. He must have been pretty well 
convinced it was going to happen again - but this time he wasn't backing down. 
The man's eyes shifted to me. 'Another one,' he said, as if marvelling that there could be so 
many assholes in the world. 'You want me to take you both on? Is that what you want? 
Believe me, I can do it.' 
Yes, I knew the type. Ten years younger and he would have been one of the guys at school 
who thought it was terribly amusing to slam Arnie's books out of his arms when he was on 
his way to class or to throw him into the shower with all his clothes on after phys ed. They 
never change, those guys. They just get older and develop lung cancer from smoking too 
many Luckies or step out with a brain embolism at fifty-three or so, 
'We don't want to take you on,' I said. 'He had a flat tyre, for God's sake! Didn't you ever 
have a flat?' 
'Ralph, I want them out of here!' The porky wife was standing on the porch. Her voice was 
high and excited. This was better than the Phil Donahue Show. Other neighbours had come 
out to watch developments, and I thought 'again with great weariness that if someone had not 
called the cops already, someone soon would,</p>
      <p class="calibre3">'I never had a flat and left some old piece of junk sitting in front of someone's house for 
three hours,' Ralph said loudly. His lips were pulled back and I could see spit shining on his 
teeth in the light of the setting sun. 
'It's been an hour,' I said quietly, 'if that.' 
'Don't give me any of your smartmouth, kid,' Ralph said. 'I ain't interested. I ain't like you 
guys. I work for a living. I come home tired, I ain't got time to argue. I want it out and I want 
it out now.' 
'I've got a spare right in my boot,' I said. 'if we could just put it on - ' 
'And if you had any common decency - ' Arnie began hotly. 
That almost did it. If there was one thing our buddy Ralph wasn't going to have impugned 
in front of his kids, it was his common decency. He swung on Arnie. I don't know how it 
would have ended - with Arnie in jail, maybe, his precious car impounded - but somehow I 
was able to get my own hand up and catch Ralph's hand by the wrist. The two of them 
coming together made a flat smacking sound in the dusk. 
The porky little girl burst into whiny tears. 
The porky little boy sat astride his Big Wheel with his lower jaw hanging almost to his 
chest. 
Arnie, who had always scuttered past the smoking area at school like a hunted thing, never 
even flinched. He actually seemed to want it to happen. 
Ralph whirled on me, his eyes bulging with fury. 
'All right, you little shit,' he said. 'You first.' 
I held onto his hand, straining. 'Come on, man,' I said in a low voice. 'The tyre's in my boot. 
Give us five minutes to change it and get out of your face. Please.' 
Little by little the pressure of holding his hand back slacked off. He glanced at his kids, the 
little girl snivelling, the little boy wide-eyed, and that seemed to decide him. 
'Five minutes,' he agreed. He looked at Arnie. 'You're just goddam lucky I ain't calling the 
police on you. That thing's uninspected and it ain't got no tags, either.' 
I waited for Arnie to say something else inflammatory and send the game into extra 
innings, but maybe he hadn't forgotten everything he knew about discretion. 
'Thank you,' he said. 'I'm sorry if I got hot under the collar.' 
Ralph grunted and tucked his shirt back into his pants with savage little jabs. He looked 
over at his kids again. 'Get in the house!' he roared. 'What you doing out here? You want me 
to put a bang-shang-a-lang on you?'</p>
      <p class="calibre3">Oh God, what an onomatopoeic family, I thought. For Christ's sake don't put a bang-shang-
a-lang on them, Pops - they might make poopy-kaka in their pants. 
The kids fled to their mother, leaving their Big Wheels behind. 
'Five minutes,' he repeated, looking at us balefully. And later tonight, when he was hoisting 
a few with the boys, he would be able to tell them how he had done his part to hold the line 
against the drugs-and-sex generation. Yessir, boys, I told em to get that fucking junk away 
from my house before I put a bang-shang-a-lang on them. And you want to believe they 
moved like their feet was on fire and their asses were catching. And then he would light up a 
Lucky. Or a Camel. 
We put Amie's jack under the bumper. Arnie hadn't pumped the lever more than three times 
when the jack snapped in two. It made a dusty sound when it went, and rust puffed up. Arnie 
looked at me, his eyes at once humble and stricken. 
'Never mind, ‘I said. 'We'll use mine.' 
It was twilight now, starting to get dark. My heart was still beating too fast and my mouth 
was sour from the confrontation with the Big Cheese of 119 Basin Drive. 
'I'm sorry, Dennis,' he said in a low voice. 'I won't get you involved with any of this again' 
'Forget it. Let's just get the tyre on.' 
We used my jack to get the Plymouth up (for several horrible seconds I thought the rear 
bumper was just going to rip off in a screech of decaying metal) and pulled the dead tyre. We 
got the new one on, tightened the lug-nuts some, and then let it down. It was a great relief to 
have the car standing on the street again; the way that rotted bumper bent up under the jack 
had scared me. 
'There,' Arnie said, clapping the ancient, dented hubcap back on over the lug-nuts. 
I stood looking at the Plymouth, and the feeling I'd had in LeBay's garage suddenly 
recurred. It was looking at the fresh new Firestone on the rear right that did it, The blackmail 
still had one of the manufacturer's stickers on it and the bright yellow chalk-marks from the 
gas-jockey's hurried wheel-balancing. 
I shivered a little - but to convey the sudden weirdness I felt would be impossible. It was as 
if I had seen a snake that was almost ready to shed its old skin, that some of that old skin had 
already flaked away, revealing the glistening newness underneath. 
Ralph was standing on his porch, glowering down at us. In one hand he was holding a 
drippy hamburger sandwich on Wonder Bread. His other hand was fisted around a can of Iron 
City. 
'Handsome, ain't he?' I muttered to Arnie as I slung his busted jack into the Plymouth's 
boot.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">'A regular Robert Deadford,' Arnie muttered back, and that was it - we both got the giggles, 
the way you sometimes will at the end of a long and tense situation, 
Arnie threw the flat into the boot on top of the jack and then got snorting and holding his 
hands over his mouth. He looked like a kid who just got caught raiding the jam-jar. Thinking 
that made me break up all the way. 
'What are you two punks laughing at?' Ralph roared. He came to the steps of his porch. 
'Huh? You want to try laughing on the other sides of your faces for a while? I can show you 
how, believe me!' 
'Get out of here quick,' I said to Arnie, and bolted back to my Duster. Nothing could stop 
the laughter now; it just came rolling out. I fell into the front seat and keyed the engine, 
whinnying with laughter. In front of me, Arnie's Plymouth started up with a bellowing roar 
and a huge stinking cloud of blue exhaust. Even over it, I could hear his high, helpless 
laughter, a sound that was close to hysteria. 
Ralph came charging across his lawn, still holding his drippy burger and his beer. 
'What are you laughing at, you punks? Huh?' 
'You, you nerd!' Arnie shouted triumphantly, and pulled out with a rattling fusillade of 
backfires. I tromped the gas pedal of my own car and had to swerve sharply to avoid Ralph, 
who was now apparently intent on murder. I was still laughing, but it wasn't good laughter 
anymore, if it ever had been - it was a shrill, breathless sound, almost like screaming. 
'I'll kill you, punk!' Ralph roared. 
I goosed the accelerator again, and this time I almost tailgated Arnie. 
I flipped Ralph the old El Birdo. 'Jam it!' I yelled. 
Then he was behind us. He tried to catch up; for a few seconds he came pounding along the 
sidewalk, and then he stopped, breathing hard and snarling. 
'What a crazy day,' I said aloud, a little frightened by the shaky, teary quality of my own 
voice. That sour taste was back in my mouth. 'What a crazy fucking day.' 
* * * * * 
Darnell's Garage on Hampton Street was a long building with rusty corrugated-tin sides and 
a rusty corrugated-tin roof. Out front was a grease-caked sign which read: SAVE MONEY! 
YOUR KNOW-HOW, OUR TOOLS! Below that was another sign in smaller type, reading 
Garage Space Rented by the Week, Month, or Year. 
The automobile junkyard was behind Darnell's. It was a block-long space enclosed in five-
foot-high strips of the same corrugated tin, Will Darnell's apathetic nod toward the Town 
Zoning Board. Not that there was any way the Board was going to bring Wilt Darnell to heel, 
and not just because two of the three Zoning Board members were his friends. In Libertyville,</p>
      <p class="calibre3">Will Darnell knew just about everyone who counted. He was one of those fellows you find in 
almost any large town or small city, moving quietly behind any number of scenes. 
I had heard that he was mixed up in the lively drug traffic at Libertyville High and Darby 
Junior High, and I had also heard that he was on a nodding acquaintance with the big-time 
crooks in Pittsburgh and Philly. I didn't believe that stuff - at least, I didn't think I did - but I 
knew that if you wanted firecrackers or cherry-bombs or bottle-rockets for the Fourth of July, 
Will Darnell would sell them to you. I had also heard, from my father, that Will had been 
indicted twelve years before, when I was but a lad of five, as one of the kingpins in a stolen-
car ring that stretched from our part of the world east to New York City and all the way up to 
Bangor, Maine. Eventually the charges were dropped. But my dad also said he was pretty 
sure that Will Darnell might be up to his ears in other shenanigans; anything from truck 
hijackings to fake antiques. 
A good place to stay away from, Dennis, my father had said. This had been a year ago, not 
long after I got my first clunker and had invested twenty dollars in renting one of Darnell's 
Do-It-Yourself Garage bays to try and replace the carburettor, an experiment that had ended 
in dismal failure. 
A good place to stay away from - and here I was, pulling in through the main gates behind 
my friend Arnie after dark, nothing left of the day but a tinge of furnace red on the horizon. 
My headlights picked out enough discarded auto-parts, wreckage, and general all-around 
dreck to make me feel more depressed and tired than ever. I realized I hadn't called home, 
and that my mother and father would probably be wondering just where the hell I was. 
Arnie drove up to a big garage door with a sign beside it reading HONK FOR ENTRY. There 
was a feeble light spilling out through a grime-coated window beside the door somebody was 
at home - and I barely restrained an impulse to lean out of my window and tell Arnie to drive 
his car over to my house for the night. I had a vision of us stumbling onto Will Darnell and 
his cronies inventorying hijacked colour TVs or repainting stolen Cadillacs. The Hardy Boys 
come to Libertyville. 
Arnie just sat there, not honking, not doing anything and I was about to get out and ask him 
what was what when he came back to where I was parked. Even in the last of the failing light, 
he looked deeply embarrassed. 
'Would you mind honking your horn for me, Dennis?' he said humbly. 'Christine's doesn't 
seem to work.' 
'Sure.' 
'Thanks.' 
I beeped my horn twice, and after a pause the big garage door went rattling up. Will Darnell 
himself was standing there, his belly pushing out over his belt. He waved Arnie inside 
impatiently.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">I turned my car around, parked it facing out, and went inside myself. 
The interior was huge, vaultlike, and terribly sil2nt at the end of the day. There were as 
many as five dozen slant-parking stalls, each equipped with its own bolted-down toolbox for 
do-it-yourselfers who had ailing cars but no tools. The ceiling overhead was high, and 
crossed with naked, gantrvlike beams. 
Signs were plastered everywhere: ALL TOOLS MUST BE INSPECTED BEFORE YOU 
LEAVE and MAKE APPOINTMENT FOR LIFT-TIME IN ADVANCE and MOTOR MANUALS 
ON FIRST-COME FIRST-SERVE BASIS and NO PROFANITY OR SWEARING WILL BE 
TOLERATED. Dozens of others; everywhere you turned, one seemed to jump right out at you. 
A big sign-man was Will Darnell. 
'Stall twenty! Stall twenty!' Darnell yelled at Arnie in his irritable, wheezy voice. 'Get it 
over there and shut it off before we all choke!' 
'We all' seemed to be a group of men at an oversized cardtable in the far corner. Poker-
chips, cards, and bottles of beer were scattered across the table. They were looking at Arnie's 
new acquisition with varying expressions of disgust and amusement. 
Arnie drove across to stall twenty, parked it, and shut it off. Blue exhaust drifted in the 
huge, cavernous space. 
Darnell turned to me. He was wearing a sail-like white shirt and brown khaki pants. Great 
rolls of fat bulged out his neck and hung in dewlaps from below his chin. 
'Kiddo,' he said in that same wheezing voice, 'if you sold him that piece of shit, you ought 
to be ashamed of yourself.' 
'I didn't sell it to him.' For some absurd reason I felt I had to justify myself before this fat 
slob in a way I wouldn't have done before my own father. 'I tried to talk him out of it.' 
'You should have talked harder.' He walked across to where Arnie was getting out of his 
car. He slammed the door; rust flaked down from the rocker panel on that side in a fine red 
shower. 
Asthma or no asthma, Darnell walked with the graceful, almost feminine movements of a 
man who has been fat for a long time and sees a long future of fathood ahead of him. And he 
was yelling at Arnie before Arnie even got turned around, asthma or not. I guess you could 
say he was a man who hadn't let his infirmities get him down. 
Like the kids in the smoking area at school, like Ralph on Basin Drive, like Buddy 
Repperton (we'll be talking about him all too soon, I'm afraid), he had taken an instant dislike 
to Arnie - it was a case of hate at first sight. 
'Okay, that's the last time you run that mechanical asshole in here without the exhaust hose!' 
he yelled. 'I catch you doin it, you're out, you understand?'</p>
      <p class="calibre3">'Yes.' Arnie looked small and tired and whipped. Whatever wild energy had carried him this 
far was gone now. it broke my heart a little to see him looking that way. 'I - ' 
Darnell didn't let him get any further. 'You want an exhaust hose, that's two-fifty an hour if 
you reserve in advance. And I'm telling you something else right now, and you want to take it 
to heart, my young friend. I don't take any shit from you kids. I don't have to. This place is for 
working guys that got to keep their cars running so they can put bread on the table, not for 
rich college kids who want to go out dragging on the Orange Belt. I don't allow no smoking 
in here. If you want a butt, you go outside in the junkyard.' 
'I don't sm - ' 
'Don't interrupt me, son. Don't interrupt me and don't get smart,' Darnell said. Now he was 
standing in front of Arnie. Being both taller and wider, he blotted my friend out entirely. 
I began to get angry again. I could actually feel my body moan in protest at the yo-yo string 
my emotions had been on ever since we pulled up to LeBay's house and saw that the damned 
car wasn't on the lawn anymore. 
Kids are a downtrodden class; after a few years you learn to do your own version of an 
Uncle Tom routine on kid-baters like Will Darnell. Yessir, nosir, okay, you bet. But, Jesus, he 
was laying it on thick. 
I suddenly grabbed Darnell's arm. 'Sir?' 
He swung around on me. I find that the more I dislike adults, the more apt I am to call them 
Sir. 
'What?' 
'Those men over there are smoking. You better tell them to stop.' I pointed to the guys at the 
poker table. They had dealt out a fresh hand. Smoke hung over the table in a blue haze. 
Darnell looked at them, then back at me. His face wag very solemn, 'You trying to help 
your buddy right out of here, Junior?' 
'No,' I said. 'Sir. 
'Then shut your pie-hole.' 
He turned back to Arnie and put his meaty hands on his wide, well-padded hips. 
'I know a creep when I see one,' he said, 'and I think I'm looking at one right now. You're 
on probation, kid. You screw around with me just one time and it don't matter how much you 
paid up in front, I'll put you out on your ass.' 
Dull fury went up from my stomach to my head and made it throb. Inside I begged Arnie to 
tell this fat fuck to bore it and stroke it and then drive it straight up his old tan track just as 
fast and far as it would go. Of course then Darnell's poker buddies would get into it and we'd</p>
      <p class="calibre3">both probably end this enchanting evening at the emergency room of Libertyville Community 
Hospital getting our heads stitched up . . . but it would almost be worth it. 
Arnie, I begged inside, tell him to shove it and let's get out of here. Stand up to him, Arnie. 
Don't let him pull this shit on you. Don't be a loser, Arnie - if you can stand up to your 
mother, you can stand up to this happy asshole. Just this once, don't be a loser. 
Arnie stood silent for a long time, his head down, and then he said, 'Yessir.' The word was 
so low it was nearly inaudible. It sounded as if he was choking on it. 
'What did you say?' 
Arnie looked up.His face was deadly pale. His eye's were swimming with tears. I couldn't 
look at that. It hurt me too bad to look at that. I turned away. The poker players had 
suspended their game to watch developments over at stall twenty. 
'I said, “Yessir,”' Arnie said in a trembling voice. It was as if he had just signed his name to 
some terrible confession. I looked at the car again, the '58 Plymouth, sitting in here when it 
should have been out back in the junkyard with the rest of Darnell's rotten plugs, and I hated 
it all over again for what it was doing to Arnie. 
'Arright, get out of here,' Darnell said. 'We're closed.' 
Arnie stumbled away blindly. He would have walked right into a stack of old bald tyres if I 
hadn't grabbed his arm and steered him away. Darnell went back the other way to the poker 
table. When he got there he said something to the others in his wheezy voice. They all roared 
with laughter. 
'I'm all right, Dennis,' Arnie said, as if I had asked him. His teeth were locked together and 
his chest was heaving in quick, shallow breaths. 'I'm all right, let go of me, I'm all right, I'm 
okay.' 
I let go of his arm. We walked across to the door and Darnell hollered at us, 'And you ain't 
going to bring your hoodlum friends in here, or you're out!' 
One of the others chimed, 'And leave your dope at home!' 
Arnie cringed. He was my friend, but I hated him when he cringed that way. 
We escaped into the cool darkness. The door rattled down behind us. And that's how we got 
Christine to Darnell's Garage. Some great time, huh?</p>
      <p class="calibre3">6   OUTSIDE 
 
I got me a car and I                                                                                                                             
.        got me some gas,                                                                                 
Told everybody they could                                                                                                             
.        kiss my ass . . . 
                                                           - Glenn Frey 
 
We got into my car and I drove out of the yard. Somehow it had gotten around to past nine 
o'clock. How the time flies when you're having fun. A half-moon stood out in the sky. That 
and the orange lights in the acres of parking lot at the Monroeville Mall took care of any 
wishing stars there might have been. 
We drove the first two or three blocks in utter I silence, and then Arnie suddenly burst into 
a fury of weeping. I had thought he might cry, but the force of this frightened me. I pulled 
over immediately. 
'Arnie - ' 
I gave up right there. He was going to do it until it was done. The tears and the sobs came in 
a shrill, bitter flood, and they came without restraint - Arnie had used up his quota of restraint 
for the day. At first it seemed to be nothing but reaction; I felt the same sort of thing myself, 
only mine had gone to my head, making it ache like a rotted tooth, and to my stomach, which 
was sickly clenched up. 
So, yeah, at first I thought it was nothing but a reaction sort of thing, a spontaneous release, 
and maybe at first it was. But after a minute or two, I realised it was a lot more than that; it 
went a lot deeper than that. And I began to get words out of the sounds he was making: just a 
few at first, then strings of them. 
'I'll get them!' he shouted thickly through the sobs. 'I'll 'get those fucking sons of bitches I'll 
get them Dennis. I'll make them sorry I'll make those fuckers eat it . . . EAT IT . . . EAT IT!' 
'Stop it,' I said, scared. 'Arnie, quit it.' 
But he wouldn't quit it. He began to slam his -fists down on the padded dashboard of my 
Duster, hard enough to make marks. 
'I'll get them you see if I don't!' 
In the dim glow of the moon and a nearby streetlight, his face looked ravaged and haglike. 
He was like a stranger to me then. He was off walking in whatever cold places of the universe 
a fun-loving God reserves for people like him. I didn't know him. I didn't want to know him. I</p>
      <p class="calibre3">could only sit there helplessly and hope that the Arnie I did know would come back. After a 
while, he did. 
The hysterical words disappeared into sobs again. The hate was gone and he was only 
crying. It was a deep, bawling, bewildered sound. 
I sat there behind the wheel of my car, not sure what I should do, wishing I was someplace 
else, anyplace else, trying on shoes at Thom McAn's, filling out a credit application in a 
discount store, standing in front of a pay toilet stall with diarrhoea and no dime. Anyplace, 
man. It didn't have to be Monte Carlo. Mostly I sat there wishing I was older. Wishing we 
were both older. 
But that was a copout job. I knew what to do. Reluctantly, not wanting to, I slid across the 
seat and put my arms around him and held him. I could feel his face, hot and fevered, mashed 
against my chest. We sat that way for maybe five minutes, and then I drove him to his house 
and dropped him off. After that I went home myself. Neither of us talked about it later, me 
holding him like that. No one came along the sidewalk and saw us parked at the kerb. I 
suppose if someone had, we would have looked like a couple of queers, I sat there and held 
him and loved him the best I could and wondered how come it had to be that I was Arnie 
Cunningham's only friend, because right then, believe me, I didn't want to be his friend. 
Yet , somehow - I realized it then, if only dimly - maybe Christine was going to be his 
friend now, too. I wasn't sure if I liked that either, although we had been through the same 
shit-factory on her behalf that long crazy day. 
When we rolled up to the kerb in front of his house I said, 'You going to be all right, man?' 
He managed a smile. 'Yeah, I'll be okay.' He looked at me sadly. 'You know, you ought to 
find some other favourite charity. Heart Fund. Cancer Society. Something.' 
'Ahh, get out of here.' 
'You know what I mean.' 
'If you mean you're a wet end, you're not telling me anything I didn't know.' 
The front porch light came on, and both Michael and Regina came flying out, probably to 
see if it was us or the State Police come to inform them that their only chick and child had 
been run over on the highway. 
'Arnold?' Regina called shrilly. 
'Bug out, Dennis,' Arnie said, grinning a little more honestly now. 'This shit you don't need.' 
He got out of the car and said dutifully, 'Hi, Mom. Hi, Dad.' 
'Where have you been?' Michael asked. 'You had your mother badly frightened, young 
man!'</p>
      <p class="calibre3">Arnie was right. I could do without the reunion scene. I glanced back in the rearview mirror 
just briefly and saw him standing there, looking solitary and vulnerable - and then the two of 
them enfolded him and began shepherding him back to the $60,000 nest, no doubt turning the 
full force of all their latest parenting trips on him - Parent Effectiveness Training, est, who 
knows what else. They were so perfectly rational about it, that was the thing. They had 
played such a large part in what he was, and they were just too motherfucking (and 
fatherfucking) rational to see it. 
I turned the radio on to FM-104, where the Block Party Weekend was continuing, and got 
Bob Seger and the Silver Bullet Band singing 'Still the Same'. The serendipity was just a little 
too hideously perfect, and I dialled away to the Phillies game. 
The Phillies were losing. That was all right. That was par for the course.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">7   BAD DREAMS 
 
I'm a roadrunner, honey,                                                                                                                   
And you can't catch me.                                                                                             
Yes, I'm a roadrunner, honey,                                                                                                                  
And you can't keep up with me.                                                                                                                 
Come on over here and race,                                                                                                                   
Baby, baby, you'll see.                                                                                                                                 
Move over, honey! Stand back!                                                                                                               
I'm gonna put some dirt in your eye! 
                                  - Bo Diddley 
 
When I got home, my dad and my sister were sitting in the kitchen eating brown-sugar 
sandwiches. I started feeling hungry right away and realised I'd never gotten any supper. 
'Where you been, Boss?' Elaine asked, hardly looking up from her 16 or Creem or Tiger 
Beat or whatever it was. She had been calling me Boss ever since I discovered Bruce 
Springsteen the year before and became a fanatic. It was supposed to get under my skin. 
At fourteen Elaine was beginning to leave her childhood behind and to turn into the full-
fledged American beauty that she eventually became - tall, dark-haired, and blue-eyed. But in 
that late summer of 1978 she was the total teenaged crowd animal. She had begun with 
Donny and Marie at nine, then had gotten all moony for John Travolta at eleven (I made the 
mistake of calling him John Revolta one day and she scratched me so badly that I almost 
needed a stitch in my cheek - I supposed I deserved it, sort of). At twelve she was gone for 
Shaun. Then it was Andy Gibb. Just lately she had developed more ominous tastes: 
heavymetal rockers like Deep Purple and a new group, Styx. 
'I was helping Arnie get his car squared away, I said, as much to my father as to Ellie. 
More, really. 
'That creep.' Ellie sighed and turned the page of her magazine. 
I felt a sudden and amazingly strong urge to rip the magazine out of her hands, tear it in 
two, and throw the pieces in her face. That went further toward showing me exactly how 
stressful the day had been than anything else could have done. Elaine doesn't really think 
Arnie's a creep; she just takes every possible opportunity to get under my skin. But maybe I 
had heard Arnie called a creep too often over the last few hours. His tears were still drying on 
the front of my shirt, for Christ's sake, and maybe I felt a little bit creepy myself.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">'What's Kiss doing these days, dear?' I asked her sweetly. 'Written any love-letters to Erik 
Estrada lately? “Oh, Erik, I'd die for you, I go into a total cardiac arrest every time I think of 
your thick, greasy lips squelching down on mine . . . ” ' 
'You're an animal,' she said coldly. 'Just an animal, that's all you are.' 
'And I don't know any better.' 
'That's right.' She picked up her magazine and her brown-sugar sandwich and flounced 
away into the living room. 
'Don't you get that stuff on the floor, Ellie,' Dad warned her, spoiling her exit a bit. 
I went to the fridge and rummaged out some bologna and a tomato that didn't look as if it 
was working. There was also half a package of processed cheese, but wild overindulgence in 
that shit as a grade-schooler had apparently destroyed my craving for it. I settled for a quart 
of milk to go with my sandwich and opened a can of Campbell's Chunky Beef. 
'Did he get it?' Dad asked me. My dad is a tax-consultant for H&amp;R Block. He also does 
freelance tax work. In the old days he used to be a full-time accountant for the biggest 
architectural firm in Pittsburgh, but then he had a heart attack and got out. He's a good man. 
'Yeah, he got it.' 
'Still look as bad to you as it did?' 
'Worse. Where's Mom?' 
'Her class,' he said. 
His eyes met mine, and we both almost got the giggles. We immediately looked away in 
separate directions, ashamed of ourselves - but even being honestly ashamed didn't seem to 
help much. My mom is forty-three and works as a dental hygienist. For a long time she didn't 
work at her trade, but after Dad had his heart attack, she went back. 
Four years ago she decided she was an unsung writer. She began to produce poems about 
flowers and stories about sweet old men in the October of their years. Every now and then 
she would get grittily realistic and do a story about a young girt who was tempted 'to take a 
chance' and then decided it would be immeasurably better if she Saved It for the Marriage 
Bed. This summer she had signed up for a directed writing course at Horlicks - where 
Michael and Regina Cunningham taught, you will remember - and was putting all her themes 
and stories in a book she called Sketches of Love and Beauty. 
Now you could be saying to yourself (and more power to you if you are) that there is 
nothing funny about a woman who has managed to hold a job and also to raise her family 
deciding to try something new, to expand her horizons a little. And of course you'd be right. 
Also you could be saying to yourself that my father and I had every reason to be ashamed of 
ourselves, that we were nothing more than a couple of male sexist pigs oinking it up in our</p>
      <p class="calibre3">kitchen, and again you'd be perfectly right. I won't argue either point, although I will say that 
if you had been subjected to frequent oral readings from Sketches of Love and Beauty, as 
Dad and I - and also Elaine - had been, you might understand the source of the giggles a little 
better. 
Well, she was and is a great mom, and I guess she is also a great wife for my father - at 
least I never heard him complain, and he's never stayed out all night drinking and all I can say 
in our defence is that we never laughed to her face, either of us. That's pretty poor, I know, 
but at least it's better than nothing. Neither of us would have hurt her like that for the world. 
I put a hand over my mouth and tried to squeeze the giggles off. Dad appeared to be 
momentarily choking on his bread and brown-sugar. I don't know what he was thinking of, 
but what had lodged in my mind was a fairly recent essay entitled 'Did Jesus Have a Dog?' 
On top of the rest of the day, it was nearly too much. 
I went to the cabinets over the sink and got a glass for my milk, and when I looked back, 
my father had himself under control again. That helped me do likewise. 
'You looked sort of glum when you came in,' he said. 'Is everything all right with Arnie, 
Dennis?' 
'Arnie's cool,' I said, dumping the soup into a saucepan and throwing it on the stove. 'He 
just bought a car, and that's a mess, but Arnie's all right.' Of course Arnie wasn't all right, but 
there are some things you can't bring yourself to tell your dad, no matter how well he's 
succeeding at the great American job of dadhood. 
'Sometimes people can't see things until they see them for themselves,' he said. 
'Well,' I said, 'I hope he sees it soon. He's got the car at Darnell's for twenty a week because 
his folks didn't want him to park it at home.' 
'Twenty a week? For just a stall? Or a stall and tools?' 
'Just a stall.' 
'That's highway robbery.' 
'Yeah,' I said, noticing that my father didn't follow up that judgement with an offer that 
Arnie could park it at our place. 
'You want to play a game of cribbage?'    
'I guess so,' I said. 
'Cheer up, Dennis. You can't make other peoples mistakes for them.' 
'Yeah, really.'</p>
      <p class="calibre3">We played three or four games of cribbage, and he beat me every time - he almost always 
does, unless he's very tired or has had a couple of drinks. That's okay with me, though, The 
times that I do beat him mean more. We played cribbage, and after a while my mother came 
in, her colour high and her eyes glowing, looking too young to be my mom, her book of 
stories and sketches clasped to her breasts. She kissed my father - not her usual brush, but a 
real kiss that made me feel all of a sudden like I should be someplace else. 
She asked me the same stuff about Arnie and his car, which was fast becoming the biggest 
topic of conversation around the house since my mother's brother, Sid, went into bankruptcy 
and asked my dad for a loan. I went through the same song-and-dance. Then I went upstairs 
to bed. My ass was dragging, and it looked to me as if my mom and dad had business of their 
own to attend to . . . although that was a topic I never went into all that deeply in my mind, as 
I'm sure you'll understand. 
Elaine was in on her bed, listening to the latest K-Tel conglomeration of hits. I asked her to 
turn it down because I was going to bed. She stuck out her tongue at me. No way I allow that 
kind of thing. I went in and tickled her until she said she was going to puke. I said go ahead 
and puke, it's your bed, and tickled her some more. Then she put on her 'please don't kid me 
Dennis because this is something terribly important' expression and got all solemn and asked 
me if it was really true you could light farts. One of her girlfriends, Carolyn Shambliss, said it 
was, but Carolyn lied about almost everything. 
I told her to ask Milton Dodd, her dorky-looking boyfriend. Then Elaine really did get mad 
and tried to hit me and asked me why do you always have to be so awful, Dennis? So I told 
her yes, it was true you could light farts, and advised her not to try it, and then I gave her a 
hug (which I rarely did anymore - it made me uncomfortable since she started to get boobs, 
and so did the tickling, to tell the truth) and then I went to bed. 
And undressing, I thought, The day didn't end so bad, after all. There are people around 
here who think I'm a human being, and they think Arnie is, as well, I'll get him to come over 
tomorrow or Sunday and we'll just hang out, watch the Phillies on TV, maybe, or play some 
dumb board-game, Careers or Life or maybe that old standby, Clue, and get rid of the 
weirdness. Get feeling decent again. 
So I went to bed with everything straight in my mind, and I should have gone right to sleep, 
but I didn't. Because it wasn't straight, and I knew it. Things get started, and sometimes you 
don't know what the hell they are. 
Engines. That's something else about being a teenager. There are all these engines, and 
somehow you end up with the ignition keys to some of them and you start them up but you 
don't know what the fuck they are or what they're supposed to do. There are clues, but that's 
all. The drug thing is like that, and the booze thing, and the sex thing, and sometimes other 
stuff too - a summer job that generates a new interest, a trip, a course in school. Engines. 
They give you the keys and some clues and they say, Start it up, see what it will do, and 
sometimes what it does is pull you along into a life that's really good and fulfilling, and</p>
      <p class="calibre3">sometimes what it does is pull you right down the highway to hell and leave you all mangled 
and bleeding by the roadside. 
Engines. 
Big ones. Like the 382s they used to put in those old cars. Like Christine. 
I lay there in the dark, twisting and turning until the sheet was pulled out and all balled up 
and messy, and I thought about LeBay saying, Her name is Christine. And somehow, Arnie 
had picked up on that. When we were little kids we had scooters and then bikes, and I named 
mine but Arnie never named his - he said names were for dogs and cats and guppies. But that 
was then and this was now. Now he was calling that Plymouth Christine, and, what was 
somehow worse, it was always 'her' and 'she' instead of 'it'. 
I didn't like it, and I didn't know why. 
And even my own father had spoken of it as if, instead of buying an old junker, Arnie had 
gotten married. But it wasn't like that. Not at all. Was it? 
Stop the car, Dennis. Go back. . . . I want to look at her again. 
Simple as that. 
No consideration at all, and that wasn't like Arnie, who usually thought things out so 
carefully - his life had made him all too painfully aware of what happened to guys like him 
when they went off half-cocked and did something (gasp!) on impulse. But this time he had 
been like a man who meets a showgirl, indulges in a whirlwind courtship, and ends up with a 
hangover and a new wife on Monday morning. 
It had been . . . well . . . like love at first sight. 
Never mind, I thought. We'll start over again. Tomorrow we'll start over. We'll get some 
perspective on this. 
And so finally I went to sleep. And dreamed. 
* * * * * 
The whining spin of a starter in darkness. 
Silence. 
The starter, whining again. 
The engineered, missed, then caught. 
An engine running in darkness. 
Then headlights came on, high beams, old-fashioned twin beams, spearing me like a bug on 
glass.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">I was standing in the open doorway of Roland D. LeBay's garage, and Christine sat inside - 
a new Christine with not a dent or a speck of rust on her. The clean, unblemished windscreen 
darkened to a polarized blue strip at the top. From the radio came the hard rhythmic sounds 
of Dale Hawkins doing 'Susie-Q' - a voice from a dead age, full of a somehow frightening 
vitality. 
The motor muttering words of power through dual glasspack silencers. And somehow I 
knew there was a Hurst gearbox inside, and Feully headers; the Quaker State oil had just 
been changed - it was a clean amber colour, automotive lifeblood. 
The wipers suddenly start up, and that's strange because there's no one behind the wheel, 
the car is empty. 
Come on, big guy. Let's go for a ride. Let's cruise. 
I shake my head. I don't want to get in there. I'm scared to get in there. I don't want to 
cruise. And suddenly the engine begins to rev and fall off, rev and fall off; it's a hungry 
sound, frightening, and each time the engine revs Christine seems to lunge forward a bit, like 
a mean- dog on a weak leash . . . and I want to move . . . but my feet seem nailed to the 
cracked pavement of the driveway. 
- Last chance, big guy. 
And before I can answer - or even think of an answer - there is the terrible scream of 
rubber kissing off concrete and Christine lunges out at me, her grille snarling like an open 
mouth full of chrome teeth, her headlights glaring - 
* * * * * 
I screamed myself awake in the dead darkness of two in the morning, the sound of my own 
voice scaring me, the hurried, running thud of bare feet coming down the hall scaring me 
even worse. I had double handfuls of sheet in both hands. I'd pulled the sheet right out; it was 
all wadded up in the middle of the bed. My body was sweat-slippery. 
Down the hall, Ellie cried out 'What was that?' in her own terror. 
My light flooded on and there was my mom in a shorty nightgown that showed more than 
she would have allowed except in the direst of emergencies, and right behind her, my dad, 
belting his bathrobe closed over nothing at all. 
'Honey, what is it?' my mom asked me. Her eyes were wide and scared. I couldn't 
remember the last time she had called me 'honey' like that - when I was fourteen? twelve? 
ten, maybe? I don't know. 
'Dennis?' Dad asked. 
Then Elaine was standing behind and between them, shivering. 
'Go back to bed,' I said. 'It was a dream, that's all. Nothing.'</p>
      <p class="calibre3">'Wow,' Elaine said, shocked into respect by the hour and the occasion. 'Must have been a 
real horror-movie. What was it, Dennis?' 
'I dreamed that you married Milton Dodd and then came to live with me,' I said. 
'Don't tease your sister,' Mom said. 'What was it, Dennis?' 
'I don't remember, I said. 
I was suddenly aware that the sheet was a mess, and there was a dark tuft of pubic hair 
poking out. I rearranged things in a hurry, with guilty thoughts of masturbation, wet dreams, 
God knows what else shooting through my head. Total dislocation. For that first spinning 
moment or two, I hadn't even been sure if I was big or little - there was only that dark, 
terrifying, and overmastering image of the car lunging forward a little each time the engine 
revved, dropping back, lunging forward again, the hood vibrating over the engine-bucket, the 
grille like steel teeth - 
Last chance, big guy. 
Then my mother's hand, cool and dry, was on my forehead, hunting fever. 
'It's all right, Mom,' I said. 'It was nothing. Just a nightmare.' 
'But you don't remember - ' 
'No. It's gone now.' 
'I was scared,' she said, and then uttered a shaky little laugh. 'I guess you don't know what 
scared is until one of your kids screams in the dark.' 
'Ugh, gross, don't talk about it,' Elaine said. 
'Go back to bed, little one,' Dad said, and gave her butt a light swat. 
She went, not looking totally happy about it. Maybe once she was over her own initial 
fright, she was hoping I'd break down and have hysterics. That would have given her a real 
scoop with the training bra set down at the rec programme in the morning. 
'You really okay?' my mother asked. 'Dennis? Hon?' That word again, bringing back 
memories of knees scraped failing out of my red wagon; her face, lingering over my bed as it 
had while I lay in the feverish throes of all those childhood illnesses - mumps, measles, a 
bout of scarlet fever. Making me feel absurdly like crying. I had nine inches and seventy 
pounds on her. 
'Sure,' I said. 
'All right,' she said. 'Leave the light on. Sometimes it helps.' 
And with a final doubtful look at my dad, she went out. I had something to be bemused 
about - the idea that my mother had ever had a nightmare. One of those things that never</p>
      <p class="calibre3">occur to you, I guess. Whatever her nightmares were, none of them had ever found their way 
into Sketches of Love and Beauty. 
My dad sat down on the bed. 'You really don't remember what it was about?' 
I shook my head. 
'Must have been bad, to make you yell like that Dennis.' His eyes were on mine, gravely 
asking if there was something he should know. 
I almost told him - the car it was Amie's goddam' car, Christine the Rust Queen, twenty 
years old, ugly fucking thing. I almost told him. But then somehow it choked in my throat, 
almost as if to speak would have been to betray my friend. Good old Arnie, whom a fun-
loving God had decided to swat with the ugly-stick. 
'All right,' he said, and kissed my cheek. I could feel his beard, those stiff little bristles that 
only come out at night, I could smell his sweat and feel his love. I hugged him hard, and he 
hugged me back. 
* * * * * 
Then they were all gone, and I lay there with the bedtable lamp burning, afraid to go back 
to sleep. I got a book and lay back down, knowing that my folks were lying awake downstairs 
in their room, wondering if I was in some kind of a mess, or if I had gotten someone else - the 
cheerleader with the fantastic body, maybe - in some kind of a mess. 
I decided sleep was an impossibility. I would read until, daylight and catch a nap tomorrow 
afternoon, maybe, during the dull part of the ballgame. And thinking that, I fell asleep and 
woke up in the morning with the book lying unopened on the floor beside the bed.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">8   FIRST CHANGES 
 
If I had money I will tell you                                                                                                              
.         what I'd do,                                                                                                                            
I would go downtown and buy                                                                                                         
.         a Mercury or two,                                                                                                                                          
I would buy me a Mercury,                                                                                                                          
And cruise up and down this road. 
             - The Steve Miller Band 
 
I thought Arnie would turn up that Saturday, so I hung around the house - mowed the lawn, 
cleaned up the garage, even washed all three cars. My mother watched all this industry with 
some amazement and commented over a lunch of hotdogs and green salad that maybe I 
should have nightmares more often. 
I didn't want to phone Arnie's house, not after all the unpleasantness I had seen there lately, 
but when the pre-game show came on and he still hadn't shown, I took my courage in my 
hands and called. Regina answered, and although she was doing a good facsimile of nothing-
has-changed, I thought I detected a new coolness in her voice. It made me feel sad. Her only 
son had been seduced by a baggy old whore named Christine, and old buddy Dennis must 
have been an accomplice. Maybe he had even pimped the deal. Arnie wasn't home, she said. 
He was at Darnell's Garage. He had been there since nine that morning. 
'Oh,' I said lamely. 'Oh, wow. I didn't know that.' It sounded like a lie. Even more, it felt 
like a lie. 
'No?' Regina said in that new cool way. 'Goodbye, Dennis.' 
The phone was dead in my hand. I looked at it awhile and then hung up. 
Dad was parked in front of the TV in his gross purple Bermudas and his Jesus-shoes, a six-
pack of Stroh's crashed down in the cooler beside him. The Phillies were having a good day, 
belting the almighty hell out of Atlanta. My mom had gone out to visit one of her classmates 
(I think they read each other their sketches and poems and got exalted together). Elaine had 
gone over, to her friend Della's house. Our place was quiet; outside, the sun played tag with a 
few benign white clouds. Dad gave me a beer, which he does only when he's feeling 
extraordinarily mellow. 
But Saturday still felt flat. I kept thinking of Arnie, not watching the Phillies or soaking up 
the rays, not even mowing the grass over at his house and getting his feet green. Arnie in the 
oily shadows of Will Darnell's Do-ItYourself Garage, playing games with that silent, rusting 
hulk while men shouted and tools clanged on the cement with that piercing white-metal</p>
      <p class="calibre3">sound, the machine-gun drill of pneumatic guns loosening old bolts. Will Darnell's wheezy 
voice and asthmatic cough - 
And goddammit, was I jealous? Was that what it was? 
When the seventh inning came along I got up and started to go out. 
'Where are you going?' my dad asked. 
Yeah, just where was I going? Down there? To watch him, cluck over him, listen to Will 
Darnell get on his case? Heading for another dose of misery? Fuck it. Arnie was a big boy 
now. 
'Noplace,' I said. I found a Twinkie tucked carefully away in the back of the breadbox and 
took it with a certain doleful glee, knowing how pissed Elaine was going to be when she 
shlepped out during one of the commercials on Saturday Night Live and found it gone. 
'Noplace at all.' 
I came back into the living room and sat down and cadged another beer off my dad and ate 
Elaine's Twinkie and even lapped the cardboard it had been on. We watched Philly finish the 
job of ruining Atlanta ('They roont em, Denny,' I could hear my grandfather, now five years 
dead, saying in his cackly old man's voice, 'they roont em good!') and didn't think about Arnie 
Cunningiiam at all. 
Hardly at all. 
* * * * * 
He came over on his tacky old three-speed the next afternoon while Elaine and I were 
playing croquet on the back lawn. Elaine kept accusing me of cheating. She was on one of 
her rips. Elaine always went on 'rips' when she was 'getting her period'. Elaine was very 
proud of her period. She had been having one regularly all of fourteen months. 
'Hey,' Arnie said, ambling round the corner of the house, 'it's either the Creature from the 
Black Lagoon and the Bride of Frankenstein or Dennis and Ellie.' 
'What do you say, man?' I asked. 'Grab a mallet.' 
'I'm not playing,' Elaine said, throwing her mallet down. 'He cheats even worse than you do. 
Men!' 
As she stalked off, Arnie said in a trembling affected voice, 'That's the first time she ever 
called me a man, Dennis.' 
He fell to his knees, a look of exalted adoration on his face. I started laughing. He could do 
it good when he wanted to, Arnie could. That was one of the reasons I liked him as well as I 
did. And it was a kind of secret thing, you know. I don't think anyone really saw that wit 
except me. I once heard about some millionaire who had a stolen Rembrandt in his basement 
where no one but him could see it. I could understand that guy. I don't mean that Arnie was a</p>
      <p class="calibre3">Rembrandt, or even a world-class wit, but I could understand the attraction of knowing about 
something good . . . something that was good but still a secret. 
We goofed around the croquet course for a while, not really playing, just whopping the 
Jesus out of each other's balls. Finally, one went through the hedge into the Blackfords' yard, 
and after I crawled through to get it, neither of us wanted to play anymore. We sat down in 
the lawn chairs. Pretty soon our cat, Screaming Jay Hawkins, Captain Beefheart's 
replacement, came creeping out from under the porch, probably hoping to find some cute 
little chipmunk to murder slowly and nastily. His amber-green eyes glinted in the afternoon 
light, which was overcast and muted. 
'Thought you'd be over for the game yesterday,' I said. 'It was a good one.' 
'I was at Darnell's,' he said. 'Heard it on the radio, though.' His voice went up three octaves 
and he did a very good imitation of my grandad. 'They roont em! They roont em, Denny!' 
I laughed and nodded. There was something about him that day - perhaps it was only the 
light, which was bright enough but still somehow gloomy and spare - something that looked 
different. He looked tired, for one thing there were circles under his eyes - but at the same 
time his complexion seemed a trifle better than it had been lately. He had been drinking a lot 
of Cokes on the job, knowing he shouldn't, of course, but unable to help succumbing to 
temptation from time to time. His skin problems tended to go in cycles, as most teenagers' do, 
depending on their moods - except in Arnie's case, the cycles were usually from bad to worse 
and back to bad again. 
Or maybe it was just the light. 
'What'd you do on it?' I asked. 
'Not much. Changed the oil. Looked the block over. It's' not cracked, Dennis, that's one 
thing. LeBay or somebody left the drain plug out somewhere along the line, that's all. A lot of 
the old oil had leaked out. I was lucky not to fry a piston driving it Friday night.' 
'How'd you get lift-time? I thought you had to reserve that in advance.' 
His eyes shifted away from mine. 'No problem there,' he said, but there was deception in his 
voice. 'I ran a couple of errands for Mr Darnell.' 
I opened my mouth to ask what errands, and then I decided I didn't want to hear. Probably 
the 'couple of errands' boiled down to no more than running around the corner to Schirmer's 
Luncheonette and bringing back coffee-and for the regulars or crating up various used auto 
parts for later sale, but I didn't want to be involved in the Christine end of Arnie's life, and 
that included how he was getting along (or not getting along) down at Darnell's Garage 
And there was something else - a feeling of letting go. I either couldn't define that 
feeling very well back then or didn't want to. Now I guess I'd say it's the way you feel when 
a friend of yours falls in love and marries a right high-riding, dyed-in-the-wool bitch. You 
don't like the bitch and in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred the bitch doesn't like you, so you</p>
      <p class="calibre3">just close the door on that room of your friendship. When the thing is done, you either let go 
of the subject . . . or you find your friend letting go of you, usually with the bitch's 
enthusiastic approval. 
'Let's go to the movies,' Arnie said restlessly. 
'What's on?' 
'Well, there's one of those gross Kung-fu movies down at the State Twin, how does that 
sound? Heee-yah!' He pretended to administer a savage karate kick to Screaming Jay 
Hawkins, and Screaming Jay took off like a shot. 
'Sounds pretty good. Bruce Lee?' 
'Nah, some other guy.' 
'What's it called?' 
'I don't know. Fists of Danger. Flying Hands of Death. Or maybe it was Genitals of Fury, I 
don't know. What do you say? We can come back and tell the gross parts to Ellie and make 
her puke.' 
'All right,' I said. 'If we can still get in for a buck each.' 
'Yeah, we can until three.' 
'Let's go.' 
We went. It turned out to be a Chuck Norris movie, not bad at all. And on Monday we went 
back to building the Interstate extension. I forgot about my dream. Gradually I realized that I 
wasn't seeing as much of Arnie as I used to; again, it was the way you seem to fall out of 
touch with a guy who has just gotten married. Besides, my thing with the cheerleader began 
to heat up around then. My thing was heating up, all right - more than one night I brought her 
home from the submarine races at the drive-in with my balls throbbing so badly I could 
barely walk. 
Arnie, meanwhile, was spending most of his evenings at Darnell's.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">9   BUDDY REPPERTON 
 
And I know, no matter what the cost,                                                                                              
Oooooh, that dual exhaust                                                                                                             
Makes my motor cry,                                                                                                                             
My baby's got the Cadillac Walk. 
                          - Moon Martin 
 
Our last full week of work before school started was the week before Labor Day. When I 
pulled up to Arnie's house to pick him up that morning, he came out with a great big blue-
black shiner around one eye and an ugly scrape upside his face. 
'What happened to you?' 
'I don't want to talk about it,' he said sullenly. 'I had to talk to my parents about it until I 
thought I was gonna croak.' He tossed his lunch pail in the back and lapsed into a grim 
silence that lasted all the way to work. Some of the other guys ribbed him about his shiner, 
but Arnie just shrugged it off. 
I didn't say anything about it on the Way home, just played the radio and kept myself to 
myself. And I might not have heard the story at all if I hadn't been waylaid by this greasy 
Irish wop named Gino just before we turned off Main Street. 
Back then Gino was always waylaying me - he could reach right through a closed car 
window and do it. Gino's Fine Italian Pizza is on the corner of Main and Basin Drive, and 
every time I saw that sign with the pizza going up in the air and all the i's dotted with 
shamrocks (it flashed off and on at night, how funky can you get, am I right?), I'd feel the 
waylaying start again. And tonight my mother would be in class, which meant a pick-ip 
supper at home. The prospect didn't fill me with joy. Neither my dad nor I was much of a 
cook, and Ellie would burn water. 
'Let's get a pizza,' I said, pulling into Gino's parking lot. 'What do you say? A big greasy 
one that smells like armpits.' 
'Jesus, Dennis, that's gross!' 
'Clean armpits,' I amended. 'Come on.' 
'Nah, I'm pretty low on cash,' Arnie said listlessly. 
'I'll buy. You can even have those horrible fucking anchovies on your half. What do you 
say?' 
'Dennis, I really don't - '</p>
      <p class="calibre3">'And a Pepsi,' I said. 
'Pepsi racks my complexion. You know that.' 
'Yeah, I know. A great big Pepsi, Arnie.' 
His grey eyes gleamed for the first time that day, 'A great big Pepsi,' he echoed. 'Think of 
that. You're mean, Dennis. Really.' 
'Two, if you want,' I said. It was mean, all right - like offering Hershey bars to the circus fat 
lady. 
'Two,' he said, clutching my shoulder. 'Two Pepsis, Dennis!' He began to flop around in the 
seat, clawing at his throat and screaming, 'Two! Quick! Two! Quick!' 
I was laughing so hard I almost drove into the cinderblock wall, and as we got out of the 
car, I thought, Why shouldn't he have a couple of sodas? He sure must have been steering 
clear of them lately. The slight improvement in his complexion I'd noticed on that overcast 
Sunday two weeks ago was definite now. He still had plenty of bumps and craters, but not so 
many of them were - pardon me, but I must say it - oozing. He looked better in other ways 
too. A summer of road-ganging had left him deeply tanned and in better shape than he'd ever 
been in his life. So I thought he deserved his Pepsi. To the victor goes the spoils. 
Gino's is run by a wonderful Italian fellow named Pat Donahue. He has a sticker on his cash 
register which reads IRISH MAFIA, he serves green beer on St Patrick's Day (on March 17th 
you can't even get near Gino's, and one of the cuts on the jukebox is Rosemary Clooney 
singing 'When  
Irish Eyes Are Smiling), and affects a black derby hat, which he usually wears tipped far 
back on his head. 
The juke is an old Wurtitzer bubbler, a holdover from the late forties, and all the records - 
not just Rosemary Clooney - are on the Prehistoric label. It may be the last jukebox in 
America where you can get three plays for a quarter. On the infrequent occasions when I 
smoke a little dope, it's Gino's I fantasize about - just walking in there and ordering three 
loaded pizzas, a quart of Pepsi, and six or seven of Pat Donahues home-made fudge 
brownies. Then I imagine just sitting down and scarfing everything up while a steady stream 
of Beach Boys and Rolling Stones hits pours out of that juke. 
We went in, ordered up, and sat there watching the three pizza cooks fling the dough into 
the air and catch it. They were trading such pungent Italian witticisms as, 'I seenya at the 
Shriners' dance last night, Howie, who was that skag your brother was wit?' 'Oh, her? That 
was your sister.' 
I mean, like, how Old World can you get? 
People came in and went out, a lot of them kids from school. Before long I'd be seeing them 
in the halls again, and I felt a recurrence of that fierce nostalgia-in-advance and that sense of</p>
      <p class="calibre3">fright. In my head I could hear the home-room bell going off, but somehow its long bray 
sounded like an alarm: Here we go again, Dennis, last time, after this year you got to learn 
how to be a grown-up. I could hear locker doors crashing closed, could hear the steady ka-
chonk, ka-chonk, ka-chonk, of linemen hitting the tackling dummies, could hear Marty 
Bellerman yelling exuberantly, 'My ass and your face, Pedersen! Remember that! My ass and 
your face! It's easier to tell the fuckin Bobbsey Twins apart!' The dry smell of chalk-dust in 
the classrooms in the Math Wing. The sound of the typewriters from the big secretarial 
classrooms on the second floor. Mr Meecham, the principal, giving the announcements at the 
end of the day in his dry, fussy voice. Lunch outdoors on the bleachers in good weather. A 
new crop of freshmen looking dorky and lost. And at the end of it all, you march down the 
aisle in this big purple bathrobe , and that's it. High school's over. You are released on an 
unsuspecting world. 
'Dennis, do you know Buddy Repperton?' Arnie asked, pulling me out of my reverie. Our 
pizza had come. 
'Buddy who?' 
'Repperton.' 
The name was familiar. I worked on my side of the pizza and tried to put a face with it. 
After a while, it came. I had had a run-in with him when I was one of the dorky little 
freshmen. It happened at a mixer dance. The band was taking a break and I was waiting in the 
cold-drink line to get a soda. 'Repperton gave me a shove and told me freshmen had to wait 
until all the upperclassmen got drinks. He had been a sophomore then, a big, hulking, mean 
sophomore. He had a lantern jaw, a thick clot of greasy black hair, and little eyes set too close 
together. But those eyes were not entirely stupid; an unpleasant intelligence lurked in them. 
He was one of those guys who spend their high school time majoring in Smoking Area. 
I had advanced the heretical opinion that class seniority didn't mean anything in the 
refreshment line. Repperton invited me to come outside with him. By then the cold-drink line 
had broken up and rearranged itself into one of those cautious but eager little circles that so 
often presage a scuffle. One of the chaperones came along and broke it up. Repperton 
promised he would get me, but he never did. And that had been my only contact with him, 
except for seeing his name every now and then on the detention list that circulated to the 
home rooms at the end of the day. It seemed to me that he'd been dismissed from school a 
couple of times, too, and when that happened it was usually a pretty good sign that the guy 
wasn't in the Young Christian League. 
I told Arnie about my one experience with Repperton, and he nodded wearily. He touched 
the shiner, which was now turning a gruesome lemon colour. 'He was the one.' 
'Repperton messed up your face?' 
'Yeah.'</p>
      <p class="calibre3">Arnie told me he knew Repperton from the auto-shop courses. One of the ironies of Arnie's 
rather hunted and certainly unhappy school life was that his interests and abilities took him 
into direct contact with the sort of people who feel it is their appointed duty to kick the 
stuffing out of the Arnie Cunninghams of this world. 
When Arnie was a sophomore and taking a course called Engine Fundamentals (which used 
to be plain old Auto Shop I before the school got a whole bunch of vocational training money 
from the Federal government), a kid named Roger Gilman beat the living shit out of him. 
That's pretty fucking vulgar, I know, but there's just no fancy, elegant way to put it. Gilman 
just beat the living shit out of Arnie. The beating was bad enough to keep Arnie out of school 
for a couple of days, and Gilman got a one-week vacation, courtesy of the management. 
Gilman was now in prison on a hijacking charge. Buddy Repperton had been part of Roger 
Gilman's circle of friends and had more or less inherited leadership of Gilman's group. 
For Arnie, going to class in the shop area was like visiting a demilitarized zone. Then, if he 
got back alive after period seven, he'd run all the way to the other end of the school with his 
chessboard and men under his arm for a chess club meeting or a game. 
I remember going to a city chess tourney in Squirrel Hill one day the year before and seeing 
something which, to me, symbolized my friend's schizo school-life. There he was, hunched 
gravely over his board in the thick, carved silence which is mostly what you hear at such 
affairs. After a long, thoughtful pause, he moved a rook with a hand into which grease and 
motor-oil had been so deeply grimed that not even Boraxo would take it all out. 
Of course not all the shoppies were out to get him; there were plenty of good kids down 
that way, but a lot of them were either into their own tight circles of friends or permanently 
stoned. The ones in the tight little cliques were usually from the poorer section of Libertyville 
(and don't ever let anyone tell you high school students aren't tracked according to what part 
of town they come from; they are), very serious and so quiet you might make the mistake of 
dismissing them as stupid. Most of them looked like the leftovers from 1968 with their long 
hair tied back in ponytails and their jeans and their tie-dyed T-shirts, but in 1978 none of 
these guys wanted to overthrow the government; they wanted to grow up to be Mr 
Goodwrench. 
And shop is still the final stopping place for the misfits and hardasses who aren't' so much 
attending school as they are being incarcerated there. And now that Arnie brought up 
Repperton's name, I could think of several guys who circled him like a planetary system. 
Most of them were twenty and still struggling to get out of school. Don Vandenberg, Sandy 
Galton, Moochie Welch. Moochie's real name was Peter, but the kids all called him Moochie 
because you always saw him outside of the rock concerts in Pittsburgh, spare-changing odd 
dimes from the crowd. 
Buddy Repperton had come by a two-year-old blue Camaro that had been rolled over a 
couple of times out on Route 46 near Squantic Hills State Park - he picked it up from one of 
Darnell's poker buddies, Arnie said. The engine was okay, but the body had really taken</p>
      <p class="calibre3">chong from the ton in the rollover. Repperton brought it into Darnell's about a week after 
Arnie brought Christine in, although,Buddy had been hanging around even before then. 
For the first couple of days, Repperton hadn't appeared to notice Arnie at all, and Arnie, of 
course, was just as happy not to be noticed. Repperton was on good terms with Darnell, 
though. He seemed to have no trouble obtaining high-demand tools that were usually only 
available on a reserve basis. 
Then Repperton bad started getting on Arnie's case. He'd walk by on his way back from the 
Coke machine or the bathroom and knocked a boxful of balljoint wrench attachments that 
Arnie was using all over the floor in Amie's stall. Or if Arnie had a coffee on the shelf, 
Repperton would manage to hit it with his elbow and spill it. Then he'd bugle 'Well ex-
cuuuuuse . . . ME!' like Steve Martin, with this big shit-eating grin on his face. Darnell would 
holler over for Arnie to pick up those attachments before one of them went through a hole in 
the floor or something. 
Soon Repperton was swerving out of his way to give Arnie a whistling clap on the back, 
accompanied by a bellowed 'How ya doin, Cuntface?' 
Arnie bore these opening salvoes with the stoicism of a guy who has seen it all before, been 
through it all before. He was probably hoping for one of two things - either that the 
harassment would reach a constant level of annoyance and stop there, or that Buddy 
Repperton would find some other victim and move on. There was a third possibility as well, 
one almost too good to hope for - it was always possible that Buddy would get righteously 
busted for something and just disappear from the scene, like his old buddy Roger Gilman. 
It had come to blows on the Saturday afternoon just past Arnie was doing a grease-job on 
his car, mostly because he hadn't yet accumulated sufficient funds to do any of the hundred 
other things the car cried out for. Repperton came by, whistling cheerfully, a Coke and a bag 
of peanuts in one hand, a jackhandle in the other. And as he passed stall twenty, he whipped 
the jackhandle out sidearm and broke one of Christine's headlights. 
'Smashed it to shit,' Arnie told me over our pizza. 
'Oh, jeez, lookit what I did!' Buddy Repperton had said, an exaggerated expression of 
tragedy on his face. 'Well, ex-cuuuuuu - ' 
But that was all he got out. The attack on Christine managed what the attacks on Arnie 
himself hadn't been able to do - it provoked him into retaliation. He came around the side of 
the Plymouth, hands balled into fists, and struck out blindly. In a book or a movie, he 
probably would have socked Repperton right on the old knockout button and put him on the 
floor for a ten-count. 
Things rarely work out that way in real life. Arnie didn't get anywhere near Repperton's 
chin. Instead he hit Repperton's hand, knocked the bag of peanuts on the floor, and spilled 
Coca-Cola all over Repperton's face and shirt.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">'All right, you fucking little prick!' Repperton cried. He looked almost comically stunned. 
'There goes your ass!' He came for Arnie with the jackhandle. 
Several of the other men ran over then, and one of them told Repperton to drop the 
jackhandle and fight fair. Repperton threw it away and waded in. 
'Darnell never tried to put a stop to it? I asked Arnie. 
'He wasn't there, Dennis. He disappeared fifteen minutes or half an hour before it started. 
It's like he knew it was going to happen.' 
Arnie said that Repperton had done most of the damage right away. The black eye was first; 
the scrape on his face (made by the class ring Repperton had purchased during one of his 
many sophomore years) came directly afterward. 'Plus assorted other bruises,' he said. 
'What other bruises?' 
We were sitting in one of the back booths. Arnie glanced round to make sure no one was 
looking at us and then raised his T-shirt. I hissed in breath at what I saw. A terrific sunset of 
bruises - yellow, red, purple, brown - covered Arnie's chest and stomach. They were just 
starting to fade. How he had been able to come to work after getting mashed around like that 
I couldn't begin to understand. 
'Man, are you sure he didn't spring any of your ribs?' I asked. I was really horrified. The 
shiner and the scrape looked tame next to this shit. I had seen high school scuffles, of course, 
had even been in a few, but I was looking at the results of a serious beating for the first time 
in my life. 
'Pretty sure,' he said levelly. 'I was lucky.' 
'I guess you were.' 
Arnie didn't say a lot more, but a kid I knew named Randy Turner was there, and he filled 
me in on what had happened in more detail after school had started again. He said that Arnie 
might have gotten hurt a lot worse, but he came back at Buddy a lot harder and a lot madder 
than Buddy had expected. 
In fact, Randy said, Arnie went after Buddy Repperton as if the devil had blown a charge of 
red pepper up his ass. His arms were windmilling, his fists were everywhere; He was yelling, 
cursing, Spraying spittle. I tried to imagine it and couldn't - the picture I kept coming up with 
instead was Arnie slamming his fists down on my dashboard hard enough to make dents, 
screaming that he would make them eat it. 
He drove Repperton halfway across the garage, bloodied his nose (more by good luck than 
good aim), and got one to Repperton's throat that made him start to cough and gag and 
generally lose interest in busting Arnie Cunningham's ass.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">Buddy turned away, holding his throat and trying to puke ' and Arnie drove one of his steel-
toed workboots into Repperton's jeans-clad butt, knocking him flat on his belly and forearms. 
Repperton was still gagging and holding his throat with one hand, his nose was bleeding like 
mad, and (again, according to Randy Turner) Arnie was apparently gearing up to kick the son 
of a bitch to death when Will Darnell magically reappeared, hollering in his wheezy voice to 
cut the shit over there, cut the shit, cut the shit. 
'Arnie thought that fight was going to happen,' I told Randy. 'He thought it was a put-up 
job.' 
Randy shrugged. 'Maybe. Could be. It sure was funny, the way Darnell showed up when 
Repperton really started to lose.' 
About seven guys grabbed Arnie and dragged him away. At first he fought them like a 
wildman, screaming for them to let him go, screaming that if Repperton didn't pay for the 
broken headlight he'd kill him. Then he subsided, bewildered and hardly aware how it had 
happened that Repperton was down and he was still on his feet. 
Repperton finally got up, his white T-shirt smeared with dirt and grease, his nose still 
bubbling blood. He made a lunge for Arnie. Randy said it looked like a pretty halfhearted 
lunge, mostly for form's sake. Some of the other guys got hold of him and led him away. 
Darnell came over to Arnie and told him to hand in his toolbox key and get out. 
'Jesus, Arnie! Why didn't you call me Saturday afternoon?' 
He sighed. 'I was too depressed.' 
We finisned our pizza, and I bought Arnie a third Pepsi. That stuff's murder on your 
complexion, but it's great for depression. 
'I don't know whether he meant get out just for Saturday or from then on,' Arnie said to me 
on our way home. 'What do you think, Dennis? You think he kicked me out for good?' 
'He asked for your toolbox key, you said.' 
'Yeah. Yeah, he did. I never got kicked out of anyplace before.' He looked like he was 
going to cry. 
'That place bites the root anyway. Will Darnell's an asshole.' 
'I guess it would be stupid to try and keep it there anymore anyway,' he said. 'Even if 
Darnell lets me come back, Repperton's there. I'd fight him again - ' 
 I started to hum the theme from Rocky. 
'Yeah, fuck you and the cayuse you rode in on, Range Rider,' he said, smiling a little. 'I 
really would fight him. But Repperton might take after her with that jackhandle again when I 
wasn't there. I don't think Darnell would stop him if he did.'</p>
      <p class="calibre3">I didn't answer and maybe Arnie thought that meant I agreed with him, but I didn't. I didn't 
think his old rustbucket Plymouth Fury was the main target. And if Repperton felt that he 
couldn't accomplish the demolition of the main target by himself, he would simply get by 
with a little help from his friends - Don Vandenberg, Moochie Welch, et al. Get on your 
motorhuckle boots, boys, we got plenty good stompin tonight. 
It occurred to me that they could kill him. Not just kill him but really, honest-to-Christ kill 
him. Guys like that sometimes did. Things just went a little too far and some kid wound up 
dead. You read about it in the paper sometimes. 
' - keep her?' 
'Huh?' I hadn't followed that. Up ahead, Arnie s house was in view. 
'I asked if you had any ideas about where I could keep her.' 
The car, the car, the car that's all he could talk about. He was starting to sound like a broken 
record. And, worse, it was always her, her, her. He was bright enough to see his growing 
obsession with her - it, damn it, it - but he wasn't picking it up. He wasn't picking it up at all. 
'Arnie,' I said. 'My man. You've got more important things to worry about than where to 
keep the car. I want to know where you're going to keep you.' 
'Huh? What are, you talking about?' 
'I'm asking you what you're going to do if Buddy and Buddy's buddies decide they want to 
put you in traction.' 
His face suddenly grew wise - it grew wise so suddenly that it was frightening to watch. It 
was wise and helpless and enduring. It was a face I recognized from the news when I was 
only eight or nine or so, the face of all those soldiers in black pajamas who had kicked the 
living shit out of the best-equipped and best-supported army in the world. 
'Dennis,' he said, 'I'll do what I can.'</p>
      <p class="calibre3">10   LeBAY PASSES 
 
I got no car and it's breakin my heart,                                                                                                       
But I got a driver, and that's a start . . . 
                - Lennon and McCartney 
 
The movie version of Grease had just opened, and I took the cheerleader out to see it that 
night. I thought it was dumb. The cheerleader loved it. I sat there, watching these totally 
unreal teenagers dance and sing (if I want realistic teenagers - well, more or less - I'll catch 
The Blackboard Jungle sometime on a revival), and my mind just drifted away. And suddenly 
I had a brainstorm, the way you sometimes will when you're not thinking about anything in 
particular. 
I excused myself and went into the lobby to use the pay-phone. I called Arnie's house, 
dialling quick and sure, I'd had his number memorized since I was eight or so. I could have 
waited until the movie was over, but it just seemed like such a damned good idea. 
Arnie answered himself. 'Hello?' 
'Arnie, it's Dennis.' 
'Oh. Dennis.' 
His voice sounded so odd and flat that I got a little scared. 
'Arnie? Are you all right?' 
'Huh? Sure. T thought you were taking Roseanne to the movies.' 
'That's where I'm calling from.' 
'It must not be that exciting,' Arnie said. His voice was still flat - flat and dreary. 
'Roseanne thinks it's great.' 
I thought that would get a laugh out of him but there was only a patient, waiting silence. 
'Listen,' I said, 'I thought of the answer.' 
'Answer?' 
'Sure,' I said, 'LeBay. LeBay's the answer.' 
'Le - ' he said in a strange, high voice . . . and then there was more silence. I was starting to 
get more than a little scared. I'd never known him to be quite this way.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">'Sure,' I babbled. 'LeBay. LeBay's got a garage, and I got the idea that he'd eat a dead-rat 
sandwich if the profit margin looked high enough. If you were to approach him on the basis 
of, say, sixteen or seventeen bucks a week -' 
'Very funny, Dennis.' His voice was cold and hateful. 
'Arnie, what - ' 
He hung up. 
I stood there, looking at the phone, wondering what the hell it was about. Some new move 
from his parents? Or had he maybe gone back to Darnell's and found some new damage to his 
car? Or - 
A sudden intuition - almost a certainty - struck me. I put the telephone back in its cradle and 
walked over to the concession stand and asked if they had today's paper. The candy-and-
popcorn girl finally fished it out and then stood there snapping her gum while I thumbed to 
the back, where they print the obituaries. I guess she wanted to make sure I wasn't going to 
perform some weird perversion on it, or maybe eat it. 
There was nothing at all - or so I thought at first. Then I turned the page and saw the 
headline. LIBERTYVILLE VETERAN DIES AT 71. There was a picture of Roland D. LeBay in 
his Army uniform, looking twenty years younger and considerably more bright-eyed than he 
had on the occasions Arnie and I had seen him. The obit was brief. LeBay had died suddenly 
on Saturday afternoon, He was survived by a brother, George, and a sister, Marcia. Funeral 
services were scheduled for Tuesday at two. 
Suddenly. 
In the obits ' it's always 'after a long illness', 'after a short illness', or 'suddenly'. Suddenly 
can mean anything from a brain embolism to electrocuting yourself in the bathtub. I 
remembered something I had done to Ellie when she was hardly more than a baby - three, 
maybe. I scared the bejesus out of her with a Jack-in-the-box. There was the little handle 
going around in big brother Dennis's hand, making music. Not bad. Kind of fun. And then - 
kaBONZO! Out comes this guy with grinning face and an ugly hooked nose, almost hitting 
her in the eye. Ellie went off bawling to find her mother and I sat there, looking glumly at 
Jack as he nodded back and forth, knowing I was probably going to get hollered at, knowing 
that I probably deserved to get hollered at - I had known it was going to scare her, coming out 
of the music like that, all at once, with an ugly bang. 
Coming out so suddenly. 
I gave the paper back and stood there, looking blankly at the posters advertising NEXT 
ATTRACTION and COMING SOON. 
Saturday afternoon. 
Suddenly.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">Funny how things sometimes worked out. My brainstorm had been that maybe Arnie could 
take Christine back where she had come from; maybe he could pay LeBay for space. Now it 
turned out that LeBay was dead. He had died, as a matter of fact, on the same day that Arnie 
had gotten into it with Buddy Repperton - the same day Buddy had smashed Christine's 
headlights 
All at once I had an irrational picture of Buddy Repperton swinging the jackhandle and at 
the exact same moment, LeBay's eye gushes blood, he keels over, and suddenly, very 
suddenly . . . 
Cut the shit, Dennis, I lectured. Just cut the - 
And then, somewhere deep in my mind, somewhere near the centre, a voice whispered 
Come on, big guy, let's cruise - and then fell still. 
The girl behind the counter popped her gum and said, 'You're missing the end of the 
picture. Ending's the best part.' 
'Yeah, thanks.' 
I started back toward the door of the theatre and then detoured to the drinking fountain. My 
throat was very dry. 
Before I'd finished getting my drink, the doors opened and people came streaming out. 
Beyond and above their bobbing heads, I could see the credit-roll. Then Roseanne came out, 
looking around for me. She caught many appreciative glances and fielded them cleanly in 
that dreamy, composed way of hers. 
'Den-Den,' she said, taking my arm. Being called Den-Den isn't the worst thing in the world 
- having your eyes put out with a hot poker or having a leg amputated with a chainsaw is 
probably worse - but I've never really dug it all that much. 'Where were you? You missed the 
ending. Ending's - ' 
' - the best part,' I finished with her. 'Sorry. I just had this call of nature. It came on very 
suddenly.' 
'I'll tell you all about it if you take me up to the Embankment for a while,' she said, pressing 
my arm against the soft sideswell of her breast. 'If you want to talk, that is.' 
'Did it have a happy ending?' 
She smiled up at me, her eyes wide and sweet and a little dazed, as they always were. She 
held my arm even more tightly against her breast. 
'Very happy,' she said. 'I like happy endings, don't you, Den-Den?' 
'Love them,' I said. I should maybe have been thinking about the promise of her breast, but 
instead I found myself thinking about Arnie.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">* * * * * 
That night I had a dream again, only in this one Christine was old - no, not just old; she was 
ancient, a terrible hulk of a car, something you'd expect to see in a Tarot deck: instead of the 
Hanged Man, the Death Car. Something you could almost believe was as old as the pyramids. 
The engine roared and missed and jetted filthy blue oilsmoke. 
It wasn't empty. Roland D. LeBay was lolling behind the wheel. His eyes were open but 
they were glazed and dead. Each time the engine revved and Christine's rust-eaten body 
vibrated, he flopped like a ragdoll. His peeling skull nodded back and forth. 
Then the tyres screamed their terrible scream, the Plymouth lunged out of the garage at me, 
and as it did the rust melted away, the old, bleary glass clarified, the chrome winked with 
savage newness, and the old, balding tyres suddenly bloomed into plump new Wide Ovals, 
each tread seemingly as deep as the Grand Canyon. 
It screamed at me, headlights glaring white circles of hate, and as I raised my hands in a 
stupid, useless, warding-off gesture, I thought, God, it's unendingfury - 
* * * * * 
I woke up. 
I didn't scream. That night I kept the scream in my throat. 
Just barely. 
I sat up in my bed. A cold puddle of moonlight caught me in a lapful of sheet, and I 
thought, Died suddenly. 
That night I didn't get back to sleep so quickly.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">11   THE FUNERAL 
 
Eldorado fins, whitewalls and skirts,                                                                                                   
Rides just like a little bit of heaven here on earth,                                                                               
Well buddy when I die throw my body in the back                                                                                   
And drive me to the junkyard in my Cadillac. 
                                        - Bruce Springsteen 
 
Brad Jeffries, our road-crew foreman, was in his midforties, balding, stocky, permanently 
sunburned. He liked to holler a lot - particularly when we were behind schedule - but he was 
a decent enough man. I went to see him during our coffee break to find out if Arnie had asked 
for part or all of the afternoon off. 
'He asked for two hours, so he could go to a buryin,' Brad said. He took off his steel-
rimmed glasses and massaged the red spots they had left on the sides of his nose. 'Now don't 
you ask - I'm losing you both at the end of the week anyway, and all the jerk-offs are staying.' 
'Brad, I have to ask.' 
'Why? Who is this guy? Cunningham said he sold him a car, that's all. Christ, I didn't think 
anyone went to a used car salesman's funeral, except for his family.' 
'It wasn't a used car salesman, it was just a guy. Arnie's having some problems about this, 
Brad. I feel like I ought to go with him.' 
Brad sighed. 
'Okay. Okay, okay, okay. You can have One to three, just like him. If you'll agree to work 
through your lunch hour and stay on till six Thursday night.' 
'Sure. Thanks, Brad.' 
'I'll punch you out just like regular,' Brad said. 'And if anybody at Penn-DOT in Pittsburgh 
finds out about this, my ass is going to be grass.' 
'They won't.' 
'Gonna be sorry to lose you guys,' he said. He picked up the paper and shook it out to the 
sports. Coming from Brad, that was high praise 
'It's been a good summer for us, too.' 
'I'm glad you feel that way, Dennis. Now get out of here and let me read the paper. 
I did.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">At one o'clock I caught a ride up to the main construction shed on a grader. Arnie was 
inside, hanging up his yellow hardhat and putting on a clean shirt. He looked at me, startled. 
'Dennis! What are you doing here?' 
'Getting ready to go to a funeral,' I said. 'Same as you.' 
'No,' he said immediately, and it was more that word than anything else - the Saturdays he 
was no longer there, the coolness of Michael and Regina over the phone, the way he had been 
when I had called him from the movies that made me realise how much he had shut me out of 
his life, and how it had happened in just the same way LeBay had died. Suddenly. 
'Yes,' I said. 'Arnie, I dream about the guy. You hear me talking to you? I dream about him. 
I'm going. We can go separately or together, but I'm going.' 
'You weren't joking, were you?' 
'Huh?' 
'When you called me on the phone from that theatre. You really didn't know he was dead.' 
'Jesus Christ! You think I'd joke about something like that?' 
'No,' he said, but not right away. He didn't say no until he'd thought it over carefully. He 
saw the possibility of all hands being turned against him now. Will Darnell had done that to 
him, and Buddy Repperton, and I suppose his mother and father too. But it wasn't just them, 
or even principally them, because none of them was the first cause. It was the car. 
'You dream about him.' 
'Yes.' 
He stood there with his clean shirt in his hands, musing over that. 
'The paper said Libertyville Heights Cemetery, I said finally. 'You going to take the bus or 
ride with me?' 
'I'll ride with you.' 
'Good deal.' 
* * * * * 
We stood on a hill above the graveside service, neither daring or wanting to go down and 
join the handful of mourners. There were less than a dozen of them all told, half of them old 
guys in uniforms that looked old and carefully preserved - you could almost smell the 
mothballs. LeBay's casket was on runners over the grave. There was a flag on it. The 
preacher's words drifted up to us on a hot late-August breeze: man is like the grass which</p>
      <p class="calibre3">grows and then is cut down, man is like a flower which blooms in the spring and fades in the 
summer, man is in love, and loves what passes. 
When the service ended, the flag was removed, and a man who looked to be in his sixties 
threw a handful of earth onto the coffin. Little particles trickled off and fell into the hole 
beneath. The obit had said he was survived by a brother and a sister. This had to be the 
brother; the resemblance wasn't overwhelming, but it was there. The sister evidently hadn't 
made it; there was no one but the boys down there around that hole in the ground. 
Two of the American Legion types folded the flag into a cocked hat, and one of them 
handed it to LeBay's brother. The preacher asked the Lord to bless them and keep them, to 
make His face shine upon them, to lift them up and give them peace. They started to drift 
away. I looked around for Arnie and Arnie wasn't beside me anymore. He had gone a little 
distance away, He was standing under a tree. There were tears on his checks. 
'You okay, Arnie?' I asked. It occurred to me that I sure as hell hadn't seen any tears down 
there, and if Roland D. LeBay had known that Arnie Cunningham was going to be the only 
person to shed a tear for him at his small-time graveside ceremonies in one of Western 
Pennsylvania's lesser-known boneyards, he might have knocked fifty bucks off the price of 
his shitty car. After all, Arnie still would have been paying a hundred and fifty more than it 
was worth. 
He skidded the heels of his hands up the sides of his face in a gesture that was nearly 
savage. 'Fine,' he said hoarsely. 'Come on.' 
'Sure.' 
I thought he meant it was time to go, but he didn't start back toward where I'd parked my 
Duster; he started down the hill instead. I started to ask him where he was going and then 
shut my mouth. I knew well enough; he wanted to talk to LeBay's brother. 
The brother was standing with two of the Legionnaire types, talking quietly, the flag under 
his arm. He was dressed in the suit of a man who is approaching retirement on a questionable 
income; it was a blue pinstripe with a slightly shiny seat. His tie was wrinkled at the bottom, 
and his white shirt had a yellowish tinge at the collar. 
He glanced around at us. 
'Pardon me,' Arnie said, 'but you're Mr LeBay's brother, aren't you?' 
'Yes, I am.' He looked at Arnie questioningly and, I thought, a little warily. 
Arnie put out his hand. 'My name is Arnold Cunnningham. I knew your brother slightly. I 
bought a car from him a short while ago.' 
When Arnie put his hand out, LeBay had automatically reached for it - with American men, 
the only gesture which may be more ingrained than the handshake response is checking your 
fly to make sure it's zipped after you come out of a public restroom. But when Arnie went on</p>
      <p class="calibre3">to say he had bought a car from LeBay, the hand hesitated on its course. For a moment I 
thought the man was not going to shake after all, that he would pull back and just leave 
Arnie's hand floating out there in the ozone. 
But he didn't do that . . . at least, not quite. He gave Arnie's hand a single token squeeze and 
then dropped it. 
'Christine,' he said in a dry voice. Yes, the family resemblance was there - in the way the 
brow shelved over the eyes, the set of the jaw, the light blue eyes. But this man's face was 
softer, almost kind; I did not think he was ever going to have the lean and vulpine aspect that 
had been Roland D. LeBay's. 'The last note I got from Rollie said he'd sold her.' 
Good Christ, he was using that damned female pronoun, too. And Rollie! It was hard to 
imagine LeBay, with his peeling skull and his pestiferous backbrace, as anyone's Rollie. But 
his brother had spoken the nickname in the same dry voice. There was no love in that voice, 
at least none that I could hear. 
LeBay went on: 'My brother didn't write often, but he had a tendency to gloat, Mr 
Cunningham. I wish there was a gentler word for it, but I don't believe there is. In his note, 
Rollie spoke of you as a “sucker” and said he had given you what he called “a royal 
screwing”.' 
My mouth dropped open. I turned to Arnie, half expecting another outburst of rage. But his 
face hadn't changed at all. 
'A royal screwing,' he said mildly, 'is always in the eye of the beholder. Don't you think so, 
Mr LeBay?' 
LeBay laughed . . . a little reluctantly, I thought. 
'This is my friend. He was with me the day I bought the car.' 
I was introduced and shook George LeBay's hand. 
The soldiers had drifted away. The three of us, LeBay, Arnie and I, were left eyeing one 
another uncomfortably. LeBay shifted his brother's flag from one hand to the other. 
'Can I do something for you, Mr Cunningham?' LeBay asked at last. 
Arnie cleared his throat. 'I wag wondering about the garage,' he said finally. 'You see, I'm 
working on the car, trying to get her street-legal again. My folks don't want it at my house, 
and I was wondering - ' 
'No.' 
' - if maybe I could rent the garage - ' 
'No, out of the question, it's really - '</p>
      <p class="calibre3">'I'd pay you twenty dollars a week, Arnie said 'Twenty-five, if you wanted.' I winced. He 
was like a kid who has stumbled into quicksand and decides to cheer himself up by eating a 
few arsenic-laced brownies. 
' - impossible.' LeBay was looking more and more distressed. 
'Just the garage,' Arnie said, his calm starting to crack. 'Just the garage where it originally 
was.' 
'It can't be done,' LeBay said. 'I listed the house with Century 21, Libertyville Realty, and 
Pittsburgh Homes just this morning. They'll be showing the house - ' 
'Yes, sure, in time, but until - ' 
' - and it wouldn't do to have you tinkering around. You see, don't you?' He bent toward 
Arnie a little. 'Please don't misunderstand me. I have nothing against teenagers in general - if 
I did, I'd probably be in a lunatic asylum now, because I've taught high school in Paradise 
Falls, Ohio, for almost forty years - and you seem to be a very intelligent, well-spoken 
example of the genus adolescent. But all I want to do here in Libertyville is sell the house and 
split whatever proceeds there may be with my sister in Denver. I want to be shut of the house, 
Mr Cunningham, and I want to be shut of my brother's life.' 
'I see,' Arnie said. 'Would it make any difference if I promised to look after the place? Mow 
the grass? Repaint the trim? Make little repairs? I can be handy that way.' 
'He really is good at stuff like that,' I chipped in. It wouldn't hurt, I thought, for Arnie to 
remember later that I had been on his side . . . even if I wasn't. 
'I've already hired a fellow to keep an eye on the place and do a little maintenance,' he said. 
It sounded plausible, but I knew, suddenly and surely, that it was a lie. And I think Arnie 
knew it, too. 
'All right. I'm sorry about your brother. He seemed like a . . . a very strong-willed man.' As 
he said it, I found myself remembering turning around and seeing LeBay with large, greasy 
tears on his cheeks. Well, that's that. I'm shut of her, sonny. 
'Strong-willed?' LeBay smiled cynically. 'Oh. yes. He was a strong-willed son of a bitch.' 
He appeared not to notice Arnie's shocked expression. 'Excuse me, gentlemen. I'm afraid the 
sun has upset my stomach a little.' 
He started to walk away. We stood not far from the grave and watched him go. All at once 
he stopped, and Arnie's face brightened; he thought LeBay had suddenly changed his mind. 
For a moment LeBay just stood there on the grass, his head bent in the posture of a man 
thinking hard. Then he turned back to us. 
'My advice to you is to forget the car,' he said to Arnie. 'Sell her. If no one will buy her 
whole, sell her for parts. If no one will buy her for parts, junk her. Do it quickly and 
completely. Do it the way you would quit a bad habit. I think you will be happier.'</p>
      </body>
</html>
