<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>CHRISTINE</title>
    <meta name="DC.Title" content="CHRISTINE"/>
    <meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/><link href="../stylesheet.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><style type="text/css">
		@page { margin-bottom: 5.000000pt; margin-top: 5.000000pt; }</style></head>
  <body class="calibre2">
    <div class="calibre3">
      <h1 class="calibre4">CHRISTINE</h1>
    </div>
    <div class="calibre3">
      <p class="calibre3">CHRISTINE 
Stephen King</p>
      <p class="calibre3">Author's Note: 
 
Lyrics quotes in this book are assigned to the singer (or singers, or group) most commonly 
associated with them. This may offend the purist who feels that a song lyric belongs more to 
the writer than the singer. What you have done, the purist might argue, is akin to ascribing the 
works of Mark Twain to Hal Holbrook. I don't agree. In the world of popular song, it is as the 
Rolling Stones say: the singer, not the song. But I thank them all, writers and singers - most 
particularly Chuck Berry, Bruce Springsteen, Brian Wilson . . . and Jan Berry, of Jan and 
Dean. He did come back from Deadman's Curve. 
Getting the necessary legal permission to use lyrics is hard work, and I'd like to thank some 
of the people who helped me remember the songs and then make sure it was OK to use them. 
They include: Dave Marsh, rock critic and rock historian; James Feury, a.k.a. 'Mighty John 
Marshall', who rocks my little town on WACZ; his brother, Pat Feury, who throws oldies 
hops in Portland; Debbie Geller; Patricia Dunning; and Pete Batchelder. Thanks to all you 
guys and may your old Coasters records never warp so bad you can't play 'em. 
S.K.</p>
      <p class="calibre3">Contents 
Prologue 
 
PART I: DENNIS - TEENAGE CAR-SONGS 
1 First Views 
2 The First Argument 
3 The Morning After 
4 Arnie Gets Married 
5 How We Got to Darnell's 
6 Outside 
7 Bad Dreams 
8 First Changes 
9 Buddy Repperton 
10 LeBay Passes 
11 The Funeral 
12 Some Family History 
13 Later That Evening 
14 Christine and Darnell 
15 Football Woes 
16 Enter Leigh, Exit Budd 
17 Christine on the Street Again 
18 On the Bleachers 
19 The Accident</p>
      <p class="calibre3">PART II: ARNIE - TEENAGE LOVE-SONGS 
 
20 The Second Argument 
21 Arnie and Michael 
22 Sandy 
23 Arnie and Leigh 
24 Seen in the Night 
25 Buddy Visits the Airport  
26 Christine Laid Low 
27 Arnie and Regina 
28 Leigh Makes a Visit 
29 Thanksgiving 
30 Moochie Welch 
31 The Day After  
32 Regina and Michael 
33 Junkins 
34 Leigh and Christine 
35 Now This Brief Interlude 
36 Buddy and Christine 
37 Darnell Cogitates 
38 Breaking Connections 
39 Junkins Again 
40 Arnie in Trouble 
41 The Coming of the Storm 
42 The Storm Breaks</p>
      <p class="calibre3">PART III: CHRISTINE - TEENAGE DEATH-SONGS 
 
43 Leigh Comes to Visit 
44 Detective Work 
45 New Year's Eve 
46 George LeBay Again 
47 The Betrayal 
48 Preparations 
49 Arnie 
50 Petunia 
51 Christine 
 
Epilogue</p>
      <p class="calibre3">PROLOGUE 
 
This is the story of a lover's triangle, I suppose you'd say - Arnie Cunningham, Leigh 
Cabot, and, of course, Christine. But I want you to understand that Christine was there first. 
She was Arnie's first love, and while I wouldn't presume to say for sure (not from whatever 
heights of wisdom I've attained in my twenty-two years, anyway), I think she was his only 
true love. So I call what happened a tragedy. 
 
Arnie and I grew up on the same block together, went to Owen Andrews Grammar School 
and Darby Junior High together, then to Libertyville High together. I guess I was the main 
reason Arnie didn't just get gobbled up in high school. I was a big guy there - yeah, I know 
that doesn't mean donkeyshit; five years after you've graduated you can't even cadge a free 
beer on having been captain of the football and baseball teams and an All-Conference 
swimmer - but because I was, Arnie at least never got killed. He took a lot of abuse, but he 
never got killed. 
He was a loser, you know. Every high school has to have at least two; it's like a national 
law. One male, one female. Everyone's dumping ground. Having a bad day? Flunked a big 
test? Had an argument with your folks and got grounded for the weekend? No problem. Just 
find one of those poor sad sacks that go scurrying around the halls like criminals before the 
home-room bell and walk it right to him. And sometimes they do get killed, in every 
important way except the physical; sometimes they find something to hold onto and they 
survive. Arnie had me. And then he had Christine. Leigh came later. 
I just wanted you to understand that. 
Arnie was a natural out. He was out with the jocks because he was scrawny - five-ten and 
about a hundred and forty pounds soaking wet in all his clothes plus a pair of Desert Driver 
boots. He was out with the high school intellectuals (a pretty 'out' group themselves in a burg 
like Libertyville) because he had no specialty. Arnie was smart, but his brains didn't go 
naturally to any one thing . . . unless it was automotive mechanics. He was great at that stuff. 
When it came to cars, the kid was some kind of a goofy born natural. But his parents, who 
both taught at the University in Horlicks, could not see their son, who had scored in the top 
five per cent on his Stanford-Binet, taking the shop courses. He was lucky they let him take 
Auto Shop I, II, and III. He had to battle his butt off to get that. He was out with the druggies 
because he didn't do dope. He was out with the macho pegged-jeans-and-Lucky-Strikes group 
because he didn't do booze and if you hit him hard enough, he'd cry. 
Oh yes, and he was out with the girls. His glandular machinery had gone totally bananas. I 
mean, Arnie was pimple city. He washed his face maybe five times a day, took maybe two 
dozen showers a week, and tried every cream and nostrum known to modern science. None</p>
      <p class="calibre3">of it did any good. Arnie's face looked like a loaded pizza, and he was going to have one of 
those pitted, poxy faces forever. 
I liked him just the same. He had a quirky sense of humour and a mind that never stopped 
asking questions, playing games, and doing funky little calisthenics. It was Arnie who 
showed me how to make an ant farm when I was seven, and we spent just about one whole 
summer watching those little buggers, fascinated by their industry and their deadly 
seriousness. It was Arnie's suggestion when we were ten that we sneak out one night and put 
a load of dried horseapples from the Route 17 Stables under the gross plastic horse on the 
lawn of the Libertyville Motel just over the line in Monroeville. Arnie knew about chess first. 
He knew about poker first. He showed me how to maximize my Scrabble score. On rainy 
days right up until the time I fell in love (well, sort of - she was a cheerleader with a fantastic 
body and I sure was in love with that, although when Arnie pointed out that her mind had all 
the depth and resonance of a Shaun Cassidy 45, I couldn't really tell him he was full of shit, 
because he wasn't), it was Arnie I thought of first, because Arnie knew how to maximize 
rainy days just like he knew how to maximize Scrabble scores, Maybe I that's one of the 
ways you recognize really lonely people . . . they can always think of something neat to do on 
rainy days. You can always call them up. They're always home. Fucking always. 
For my part, I taught him how to swim. I worked out with him and got him to eat his green 
vegetables so he could build up that scrawny bod a little. I got him a job on a road crew the 
year before our senior year at Libertyville High and for that one we both battled our butts off 
with his parents, who saw themselves as great friends of the farm workers in California and 
the steel-workers in the Burg, but who were horrified at the idea of their gifted son (top five 
per cent on his Stanford-Binet, remember) getting his wrists dirty and his neck red. 
Then, near the end of that summer vacation, Arnie saw Christine for the first time and fell 
in love with her. I was with him that day - we were on our way home from work - and I 
would testify on the matter before the Throne of Almighty God if called upon to do so. 
Brother, he fell and he fell hard. It could have been funny if it hadn't been so sad, and if it 
hadn't gotten scary as quick as it did. It could have been funny if it hadn't been so bad. 
How bad was it? 
It was bad from the start. And it, got worse in a hurry.</p>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
