<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8"/>
    <title/>
    <link href="css/9781455581535.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:994ca584-ac05-4eab-8400-c5fa92476f2d" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
  </head>
  <body>
   <div class="galley-rw">
      <section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="Chapter6">
         <div class="title-block-rw" id="title-block11">
            <p class="title-num-rw" id="title-num6"><a href="TOC.xhtml">6</a></p>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p244"><span class="dropcap-rw">C</span>amilla closed the heavy front door, kicked off her running shoes, and barged into her husband’s office in her wet clothes.</p>
         <p id="p245">“When you gut a buck or whatever the hell it’s called, you could clean up, you know. There’s practically a lake of blood out in the forest.”</p>
         <p id="p246">Frederik looked up. “What is this, what’s happened to you?”</p>
         <p id="p247">“I fell flat on my face in a big puddle of blood.”</p>
         <p id="p248">Camilla didn’t know much about hunting or forest management, though she did know that Frederik had been out several times lately hunting bucks. But she had no idea what happened after the animal was killed, except that it had to be split open on the spot and gutted to make sure the meat wasn’t spoiled.</p>
         <p id="p249">“As far as I know, there haven’t been any bucks gutted out there,” he said. “We haven’t hunted in over a week now. Where was it?”</p>
         <p id="p250">“I don’t know exactly. But there’s a big tree, partly hollow, close to a clearing with a bonfire site. It looks like someone has been there.”</p>
         <p id="p251">Frederik stood up. He didn’t work at home very often. Most of his waking hours were spent in the management offices at Termo-Lux, a window manufacturer. But the board of directors had just accepted his ultimatum: If he was to stay on as managing director of the family business, he had to have one day off a week to work on his film manuscripts—and also to see something of his wife, he’d added, when telling Camilla that they had accepted his demands.</p>
         <p id="p252">She had met Frederik Sachs-Smith in California, where over the years he had established himself as a film scriptwriter. He’d already had a hand in several big Hollywood productions; she had considered him a mixture of upper-class bohemian and cool businessman. The scriptwriting was something he did simply because he enjoyed it. While doing research for an interview with him, she had discovered that he was a more-than-competent investor; he’d turned his inheritance from his grandparents into a sizable fortune. He didn’t need to work.</p>
         <p id="p253">When they fell in love, the plan had been that she and her son, Markus, would move in with him in Santa Barbara. But after the death of Frederik’s brother and the announcement that his sister had chosen for personal reasons to step down as managing director, their plans changed. He returned to Denmark.</p>
         <p id="p254">At first, Camilla didn’t understand; Frederik had never hidden the fact that he had left Denmark to avoid becoming part of the family dynasty. He’d said numerous times that there had to be many others well qualified to head up the business. Gradually she came to realize that he had accepted the job for the sake of his father, not for the business. Walther Sachs-Smith had been forced off the board of directors of his own company the year before, as he had begun to prepare for his successor. Greed and a lust for power had driven Frederik’s two younger siblings to betray their father, who all too late discovered what they were up to.</p>
         <p id="p255">Which was why Frederik put on a suit and tie four days a week now, to lead the business his grandfather had established many years ago.</p>
         <p id="p256">“It sounds like you’ve been out at the sacrificial oak,” he said. “Which means it’s probably pig’s blood you slipped in. They buy it from the butcher.”</p>
         <p id="p257">“They? Who in the hell are ‘they’?” Camilla bellowed. She began ripping off her jogging pants.</p>
         <p id="p258">“The people who make sacrifices to the gods. They believe in Odin and Thor, and once in a while they meet out in the forest and perform rituals.”</p>
         <p id="p259">“Are they some of the people from over at the Viking Ship Museum?”</p>
         <p id="p260">“No.” He laughed and shook his head at her. “These people are believers. They’re Asatro.”</p>
         <p id="p261">“Actually I think I saw one of them.”</p>
         <p id="p262">She tossed her blouse on top of the wet pile of clothes and grabbed a blanket off the Chesterfield sofa. The office looked exactly the same as it did when Frederik’s father moved out and left the house to them. Immediately they’d changed the property’s name to Ingersminde, in honor of Walther’s deceased wife.</p>
         <p id="p263">“This old lady appeared out of nowhere and looked me straight in the eye. I almost had a heart attack—I hadn’t at all heard her walk up behind me. It seems to me she could be one of those people. She had this long braid hanging down over her shoulder.”</p>
         <p id="p264">Frederik laughed harder this time. “That’s Elinor. She lives in the gatekeeper’s house; she has most of her life. She’s completely harmless, and definitely not one of the Asatro or wights.”</p>
         <p id="p265">“Why do you let them run around and pour blood all over our forest?” Camilla asked. She nestled into the couch to get warm.</p>
         <p id="p266">“The old Asatro has deep roots in this region, though no one in our family ever believed in it,” Frederik said. “It attracts people interested in the Nordic gods and sagas. A lot of our country’s history comes from this area.”</p>
         <p id="p267">Camilla struggled to remember some of what she had learned in history class.</p>
         <p id="p268">“This is where Skjold drifted to shore in an unmanned ship the gods sent,” Frederik continued. “He grew up and became king in Lejre. His was the strongest and bravest army. Did you know that?”</p>
         <p id="p269">She nodded. Everyone who had gone to high school in Roskilde knew that story. They had heard a lot about King Skjold and his descendants, including the tale of his departure. When he died at a very old age, his body was carried aboard the ship he had arrived on as a baby and laid on his shield, together with piles of gold, jewelry, and valuable weapons. The ship was launched from shore; only the gods know where it ended up.</p>
         <p id="p270">“I met a boy out there, too,” she said. “I think he’s about Markus’s age. He was eating some food on the ground by the tree. But he could have been one of them, of course.”</p>
         <p id="p271">Frederik frowned. “I don’t think the kids come by themselves. Usually they all meet down by the gate where they park their cars, and then they all walk in together. But I’ve seen their food lying around on the ground, several times. They share it with the gods or something, and that’s fine. The animals out there can have at it, as long as there’s no plastic or other garbage.”</p>
         <p id="p272">Camilla smiled at him and gathered up her clothes. “We certainly didn’t have heathen worshipers like that when I was a little girl in Frederiksberg.”</p>
         <p id="p273">She kissed him. “At least not in my part of Frederiksberg.”</p>
      </section>
   </div>
</body>
</html>