<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8"/>
    <title/>
    <link href="css/9781455581535.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:994ca584-ac05-4eab-8400-c5fa92476f2d" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
  </head>
  <body>
   <div class="galley-rw">
      <section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="Chapter15">
         <div class="title-block-rw" id="title-block20">
            <p class="title-num-rw" id="title-num15"><a href="TOC.xhtml">15</a></p>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p736"><span class="dropcap-rw">S</span>une hid behind the tree stump when the dark-haired woman with the basket and sleeping bag under her arm appeared in the clearing. For a moment he prayed that she had come to make a new moon sacrifice; his stomach began cramping up at the thought of the leftovers. But she walked by the bonfire site and back into the forest. It was twilight, so he didn’t dare follow her.</p>
         <p id="p737">He was so hungry that sometimes it felt like worms were crawling in his guts, robbing him of vitamins, minerals, all nutrition. He’d just been down to the creek to drink. He missed being able to gulp down a whole glass of water. It wasn’t the same, scooping it up and drinking out of his hands. He’d tried sucking water up directly from the surface of the stream, but other stuff streamed into his mouth that he had to spit out constantly.</p>
         <p id="p738">Just then a deer walked into the clearing, close enough for him to make out the three-pointed white markings on its chest. He loved the thought of being at one with nature; he recalled the old myths about the boy who was sent out into the forest to live with his father…</p>
         <p id="p739">But <i>his</i> father wasn’t here. He was alone.</p>
         <p id="p740">At first he imagined the animal had smelled him when it whirled around and sprang back into the forest. Then he saw the blond woman, the one who had tried to catch him when he was eating the leftovers from the last Asatro sacrifice.</p>
         <p id="p741">She walked over to the sacrificial oak, slipped a big sack off her shoulder, and dropped it where he’d been sitting the first time he saw her. She stood around awhile as if waiting for something. He held his breath when she appeared to be staring directly at him, but then she strode off, leaving the sack behind.</p>
         <p id="p742"><i>Who is she?</i> he wondered when his heartbeat returned to normal.</p>
         <p id="p743">He waited until darkness fell to step out of hiding. He stood a few moments before sneaking over to the tree. He was in arm’s reach of the sack when he heard the car; it was close, very close. He ducked into some bushes, and instantly his clothes were soaked from the evening dew covering the long, thin leaves. He kept his face down while the car drove slowly by on the forest road. It stopped. A car door opened.</p>
         <p id="p744">Sune pressed himself even closer to the ground and lay perfectly still. A snail crawled up onto his hand. The door slammed again, and they took off. He got up on his elbows and crawled over to the big tree and the sack on the ground.</p>
         <p id="p745">Suddenly they were back, their flashlights searching around and between the trees. If they walked into the clearing, they would find the sack she’d left.</p>
         <p id="p746">They came looking for him almost every night. Never in the daytime, when someone might see them. Sune knew he couldn’t keep hiding here forever, but he had nowhere else to go.</p>
         <p id="p747">He missed his mother so badly that once in a while it overshadowed his hunger. He missed the evenings sitting with her in the living room, reading. Not saying a word. Just being together. But that was before her illness. Back then, she had taken care of the housework, reminded him of where and when he had to be somewhere, checked his homework. Everything.</p>
         <p id="p748">It wasn’t like that anymore.</p>
         <p id="p749">He couldn’t know if she still lay in bed with all the extra pillows. He wasn’t even sure she was still alive. He could barely swallow the lump in his throat when he thought about it. When he curled up inside the tree and tried to fall asleep, he prayed to the gods. Prayed that she knew why he had to keep hiding. If she was aware of everything that had gone on out here, he was sure she would understand.</p>
         <p id="p750">He wasn’t afraid anymore to be confronted by what had happened. He didn’t mind being held responsible, either, even though he had nothing to do with the girl’s death. He knew he would have to pay; if you broke an oath, you would be held responsible. The others would turn against him. All of them.</p>
         <p id="p751">The headlights disappeared and the darkness returned. The only thing visible was the clearing, where the silvery new moon cast a ghostly, surreal luminescence over the sacrificial oak. It looked like a giant rising up from the forest floor. Sune thought about Odin, the god who had hanged himself from Yggdrasil, the world tree, and had hung there for nine days to gather his strength.</p>
         <p id="p752">He kept crawling toward the sack.</p>
         <p id="p753">What was the blonde up to? He realized it could be a trap. Could she be in cahoots with them? But his stomach was screaming. He was driven by a hunger growing out of control.</p>
         <p id="p754">He heard the car’s engine again, though farther away now. It revved up, the sound split the forest silence, and he decided to go for the sack. He ran as fast as he could, grabbed the sack, and ducked back into the bushes. Then he heard tires whining and a sound like an animal crying out, followed by a thunk. He thought about the deer with the markings on its chest.</p>
         <p id="p755">The silence returned. He held the sack close to his body, which covered up his rapid breathing.</p>
         <p id="p756">Far off through the trees, the headlights glared and moved away from him. Soon it was dark again. He groped his way back to the tree stump and knelt in a small pool of clear moonlight.</p>
         <p id="p757">His fingers were stiff, but he managed to tear off the paper around the roll of sweet biscuits. He stuffed them greedily in his mouth, the crumbs flying. He felt around for the blanket with his other hand, then carefully pulled it out of the sack.</p>
         <p id="p758">After wrapping himself up in the warm wool, he leaned back against the tree stump and sorted through the rest of what was in the sack.</p>
      </section>
   </div>
</body>
</html>