<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8"/>
    <title/>
    <link href="css/9781455581535.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:994ca584-ac05-4eab-8400-c5fa92476f2d" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
  </head>
  <body>
   <div class="galley-rw">
      <section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="Chapter17">
         <div class="title-block-rw" id="title-block22">
            <p class="title-num-rw" id="title-num17"><a href="TOC.xhtml">17</a></p>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p796"><span class="dropcap-rw">T</span>he asshole meant to hit me,” Camilla told Frederik again, in the car on the way home.</p>
         <p id="p797">The X-rays had taken an eternity, and it had been the wee hours of the morning before the doctor finally examined her. Only then had he decided to keep her under observation for a day, to make sure she hadn’t sustained a concussion.</p>
         <p id="p798">Camilla’s entire body had hurt too much for her to complain about waiting. Everyone in the emergency room had been in the same boat. Several slept on hard chairs, and a mother had left despite her son’s considerable pain from a fall on his trick two-wheeler scooter. She’d sat straight in her chair and waited patiently for eight hours as blood soaked through the tall teenager’s pants at the knees and tears ran down his acne-covered cheeks.</p>
         <p id="p799">The emergency room nurse had walked around with her eyes on the gray linoleum floor, avoiding contact with the many people waiting. “These poor people,” Frederik had said, after trying several times to get someone to help. “My wife was rushed here in an ambulance and still no one has time to look at her. HEY! ANYONE HERE?”</p>
         <p id="p800">But nothing happened, apart from an elderly lady with a scarf tied neatly around her head, who looked up from her magazine and said her husband had fallen down the stairs at the train station.</p>
         <p id="p801">It had to be tough, working here every day under this kind of pressure, Camilla thought, when the doctor sent Frederik home and told him to come back for her the next day. They had waited for the doctor all morning, with compelling reasons to protest cuts in the national health care system going through her head.</p>
         <div class="decoration-rw" id="decoration10">
            <p class="center-rw" id="p802">*  *  *</p>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p803">“We can’t know he ran you down on purpose,” Frederik said. Without saying it directly, he was critical of her for not having reflectors on her bicycle. That, of course, annoyed Camilla even more.</p>
         <p id="p804">“Oh we can’t, can we? Well, I can. I can goddamn tell when a driver turns his brights on right in my eyes. I was standing in the middle of the road. It wasn’t like it was dark when he sped up to hit me!”</p>
         <p id="p805">Frederik nodded while concentrating on traffic. “Whether he tried to hit you or not, there’s no doubt he was driving way too fast,” he said. “And we don’t allow unauthorized vehicles. But right now, I’m just relieved you weren’t hurt worse.”</p>
         <p id="p806">Camilla cooled down. She knew he was right. The doctor had said it was a miracle her injuries weren’t severe. He’d added that the next few days she would probably feel like she’d gone twelve rounds in a heavyweight fight. But no bones were broken. Her black-and-blue eye looked bad. The doctor thought she must have hit a tree trunk after being flung into the air. The right side of her face was swollen, closing up her eye. Camilla had been shocked when the nurse handed her a mirror.</p>
         <p id="p807">“Tønnesen went out and put the chains up so nobody can drive into the forest now. Once in a while, someone ignores the signs and drives down to the creek. But this happened on one of the small roads, and I’m thinking we may have a poacher. What did the car look like?”</p>
         <p id="p808">Camilla thought for a few moments, then shook her head. “It was bigger than most cars, but I don’t know if it was a van or a four-wheel-drive. It came at me like a big, black shadow.”</p>
         <p id="p809">That’s all Camilla could remember. She had no idea how long she had been on the ground. Didn’t know whether it was Frederik’s voice or the ambulance’s siren she’d heard first. Her entire world had consisted of pain. She’d cried when they lifted her up on the stretcher.</p>
         <p id="p810">“By the way, how did you find me?” she asked Frederik.</p>
         <p id="p811">“I didn’t. It was Elinor. She came up to the house and demanded I follow her. I didn’t realize until I got out there that there’d been an accident.”</p>
         <p id="p812">In her head Camilla saw the old lady with the long gray braids. She shuddered.</p>
         <p id="p813">She put her hand on Frederik’s thigh and moaned loudly when they took a sharp right just after the Viking Ship Museum. “It was a good thing you went with her,” she said. She asked if he’d spoken with Louise.</p>
         <p id="p814">“She and Eik have already looked around out there. They went back to their office, but she insisted on coming out to stay the weekend. She just had to pick up Jonas and the dog.”</p>
         <p id="p815">Camilla nodded. She was happy that her friend had investigated the scene instead of showing up at the hospital with flowers and chocolate. “And Eik! What about him? Is he coming, too?”</p>
         <p id="p816">She couldn’t figure out if Louise still had something going with her colleague. Camilla liked him, a lot. Louise and Eik as a couple—that she hadn’t seen coming, but they got along very well. Though Louise hadn’t mentioned him since that night at the gamekeeper’s. Maybe it was a good idea to get him back in the picture, now that so much from Louise’s past was flaring up again.</p>
         <p id="p817">“Anyway, I’ll call and ask,” she said.</p>
         <p id="p818">“Shouldn’t you maybe—” Frederik began, but Camilla had already called the National Police Department and asked to speak to the Search Department.</p>
         <p id="p819">“Eik sounded happy for the invitation,” she said a few moments later. “He’ll see if they can’t take off early. What about Markus?” They turned into their driveway. “Is he home this weekend?”</p>
         <p id="p820">“I don’t really know,” Frederik said. He shrugged.</p>
         <p id="p821">Lately it was as if someone had stuck a rocket up Markus’s rear end. Her fifteen-year-old son was out constantly with his friends, and on the rare occasions he was home, he lay around on his bed wrapped up in Facebook while his TV blasted away. It was more or less impossible to come into contact with him. At least for her.</p>
         <p id="p822">They drove up to the house. Camilla swung her legs out of the car. “Oh shit,” she moaned.</p>
         <p id="p823">Frederik came around and pulled her up. Unable to stand straight, she hobbled slowly toward the house.</p>
         <p id="p824">“We better get you in bed,” he said. Despite her weak protests, he carried her up the broad steps to the front door. “If you take a few of the pills the doctor gave you and rest awhile, maybe you’ll feel better when Louise comes.”</p>
         <p id="p825">Camilla relented; it was too painful to walk anyway. Frederik carried her to their second-floor bedroom. He helped her out of her clothes and tucked her into bed. He sat for a while, stroking her cheek. Then he fetched a glass of water and handed it to her.</p>
         <p id="p826">“Thanks,” she whispered, and kissed him. His longish hair fell over her face, his stubble tickling her chin.</p>
         <p id="p827">She swallowed the pills and nodded when he said he would check on her later.</p>
      </section>
   </div>
</body>
</html>