<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8"/>
    <title/>
    <link href="css/9781455581535.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:994ca584-ac05-4eab-8400-c5fa92476f2d" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
  </head>
  <body>
   <div class="galley-rw">
      <section class="body-rw Chapter-rw short-hbg" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="Chapter18">
         <div class="title-block-rw" id="title-block23">
            <p class="title-num-rw" id="title-num18"><a href="TOC.xhtml">18</a></p>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p828"><span class="dropcap-rw">S</span>leep, pain, awake. Sleep, pain, awake. Short sequences of each state wove in and out of each other.</p>
         <p id="p829">Camilla’s head spun as she lay with her eyes closed, waiting for the pills to work. Maybe she’d dozed off, she wasn’t sure, but suddenly she sensed someone standing beside the bed.</p>
         <p id="p830">She opened her eyes to a wrinkled face staring down at her. It was the old woman from the forest.</p>
         <p id="p831">“The wagons are rolling on the Death Trail,” she said with the same weird little-girl voice that had nearly scared Camilla to death down by the creek.</p>
         <p id="p832">She froze, so frightened that she almost began whimpering. She stared back at the narrow mouth mumbling the same message again and again. Finally the old woman backed away, but instead of leaving, she walked over to the window and the small dent in the wall next to where Camilla had placed her large wardrobe.</p>
         <p id="p833">Camilla realized she was holding her breath; she let it out slowly. Her heart was pounding. She stared in shock at the bowed back of the woman, then threw her comforter off to the side and, despite her pain, hopped out of the door in her short T-shirt and panties. She made it down to the kitchen and plopped onto a chair before finally moaning loudly.</p>
         <p id="p834">Frederik must have heard her staggering around, because he came to the doorway looking very worried. “Couldn’t you sleep?”</p>
         <p id="p835">“She’s up in the bedroom,” she managed to say. She hunched her shoulders. “How did she get in?”</p>
         <p id="p836">“Who? What are you talking about?” He walked over and put his arms around her. Camilla knew that he thought she’d been dreaming.</p>
         <p id="p837">“The old woman from the forest. She’s up in our bedroom!”</p>
         <p id="p838">“Elinor?” Frederik didn’t seem all that surprised. “Oh no! Not again.”</p>
         <p id="p839">“What the hell do you mean, ‘again’?”</p>
         <p id="p840">“Are you cold?”</p>
         <p id="p841">Frederik was already on his way to the living room. He came back with a blanket and covered her with it.</p>
         <p id="p842">“What do you mean, ‘again’?” Camilla repeated. She pulled the blanket tight.</p>
         <p id="p843">“Elinor lived here back when it was a home for girls,” he said. “Mom said she couldn’t have been more than two years old when she came. Sometimes she forgets she lives in the gatekeeper’s house now. She’s harmless, and besides, she’s part of the history of the place. It’s nice when she shows up, too.”</p>
         <p id="p844">Camilla didn’t totally agree with that last part.</p>
         <p id="p845">“I’ll call Tønnesen,” he said. “He can follow her home.”</p>
         <p id="p846">Camilla drew the blanket around her again and closed her eyes while he talked to the manager.</p>
         <p id="p847">“She kept saying that the wagons are rolling on the Death Trail,” she said when he came back. “What does she mean?”</p>
         <p id="p848">Frederik shrugged. “No idea, but it’s what they call the path here from the house down to the girls’ graves, and then on to the sacrificial oak. It’s always been called that.”</p>
         <p id="p849">“Girls’ graves?” Camilla sat up in her chair, but Frederik was on his way upstairs to get Elinor.</p>
         <p id="p850">The front door opened, and Camilla was about to call out to Tønnesen when she heard dog feet galloping over the tiles in the hallway. A second later two dog snouts were sniffing her legs.</p>
         <p id="p851">“What in the world, whose mutt is this with my favorite dog?” she cried out. She tried to cover her legs with the blanket before the big German shepherd slobbered all over them.</p>
         <p id="p852">“Get that dog out of here,” she heard Louise say. Someone whistled, and the dog turned and ran out of the kitchen with Dina on his tail. Her friend appeared in the doorway.</p>
         <p id="p853">Louise looked as if she was about to say something about her face, but she held back at the last second and instead mumbled, “Jesus.” She hugged Camilla very carefully. “It’s going to be a while before you run your next marathon.”</p>
         <p id="p854">“It’s not so bad, really,” she said. But her friend was right. The pressure on her eye was excruciating, and water kept running out of it.</p>
         <p id="p855">Louise stroked her hair. “The car must have hit you at a relatively high speed. I called the hospital, and they told me that you’d been knocked several meters from the impact.”</p>
         <p id="p856">“You’ve talked to them?” Camilla tried to smile, even though it felt like she was grimacing.</p>
         <p id="p857">“Of course. I wanted to know what happened. Though I had to say it was in connection with a police investigation, otherwise they wouldn’t have told me.”</p>
         <p id="p858">“Have you reported it?” Eik asked. He’d just come back inside. He sat down on a kitchen chair. “Louise and I were out in the forest, but we couldn’t find anything except tire tracks where the driver definitely floored it.”</p>
         <p id="p859">Camilla nodded.</p>
         <p id="p860">Frederik said something out on the stairway, then came into the kitchen with Elinor on his arm. Both Louise and Eik rose so she could sit.</p>
         <p id="p861">But Elinor didn’t want to sit down. She stood beside Camilla’s chair, her lips moving as if she were talking to herself, her hands in the pockets of her loose summer jacket. She didn’t look at anyone, she simply stood mumbling.</p>
         <p id="p862">Camilla didn’t know what to do. She had the strange feeling that the old woman was keeping an eye on her, and she didn’t like it. She closed her eyes and rested her head on the back of the chair. Louise asked what the doctor had said before releasing her. Finally the pills began to work; her body tingled pleasantly as the pain subsided.</p>
         <p id="p863">She tried to smile again when Tønnesen walked in and caught sight of her face. Elinor livened up, and without so much as a glance at the others she took the manager’s arm and walked outside with him.</p>
         <p id="p864">Frederik smiled in resignation, then he shook Eik’s hand before giving Louise a hug. “Where’s Jonas?” He looked around.</p>
         <p id="p865">“He’s already upstairs,” Louise said, nodding at the stairs and Markus’s room. Camilla asked how their estate’s manager had become the caretaker for the old crone.</p>
         <p id="p866">“Elinor came here in 1922, back when the house was an orphanage for girls,” Frederik said. “When the orphanage was shut down, the district wanted to move Elinor to a closed institution—they didn’t have anywhere else to put her. But the old manager and his wife wouldn’t hear of it. They took care of her until my grandparents bought the place several years later. They let Elinor live in the gatekeeper’s house. Since then it’s been one of the manager’s duties to take care of her, and in fact I think Tønnesen enjoys it.”</p>
         <p id="p867"><i>The woman must be over ninety</i>, Camilla thought.</p>
         <p id="p868">Frederik offered Eik and Louise a beer. “Or would you rather have coffee?” he asked from beside the refrigerator.</p>
         <p id="p869">They both shook their heads, and Camilla nodded when he asked if she’d like some elderberry juice. “I don’t think alcohol is the best thing for you,” he said, smiling at her.</p>
         <p id="p870">She felt better now that the pills were working, and wanted to hear more about Elinor and the history of the estate. They helped her to the sofa. “How much do you actually know about it from back then?” she asked.</p>
         <p id="p871">“I have photos.” Frederik walked over to the bookshelves and opened a drawer below. “My parents took over the estate in 1972, from my grandparents. They’d owned it since 1954, when the orphanage was shut down. My mother was very interested in the history of the place; once in a while she scared the daylights out of us with some of the stuff she dug up. I remember having nightmares for a whole week about the big tree in the front courtyard burning.”</p>
         <p id="p872">“Why?” Camilla asked. She’d never known her mother-in-law, Inger Sachs-Smith, who’d died shortly before she met Frederik.</p>
         <p id="p873">“It’s a warden tree,” Frederik said, as if that explained everything.</p>
         <p id="p874">“And what the hell is that?” She sat up and looked outside.</p>
         <p id="p875">“It’s also called a fire tree,” he said. “According to superstition, the manor will burn down if you chop a limb off the tree or fell it. Mom thought that was fascinating; also the sacrificial oak.”</p>
         <p id="p876">He told Louise and Eik about the big partly hollow oak tree in the forest. “The tree is a sacred object that appears in several of the old legends and myths from this area. The manager back then was very interested in the old tales, and he reinstated the old traditions. They became a part of the estate’s history.”</p>
         <p id="p877">Eik was looking out the window at the yard. “Isn’t there something about the warden trees, that you take a chunk of the timber frame from the house and graft it onto the tree?”</p>
         <p id="p878">“Mom said that they removed a section of bark and drilled a hole in the trunk of the tree, and it was filled with a plug from the timber frame,” Frederik said. “Then they replaced the bark and it grew back. That was a hundred and twenty years ago, and I’m sure no one has touched a limb on that tree since. As far back as I can remember, there’s been a lot of respect for it and the old superstition. When I was a kid I was afraid lightning would hit it, or something else would happen, something out of our control. I really believed that all hell would break loose!” He laughed.</p>
         <p id="p879">Camilla leaned forward when he opened the old photo album. The manor was easy to recognize, majestic and white, though without nearly so many trees and bushes as now. The forest was visible, of course, but the area around the yard was much barer.</p>
         <p id="p880">“Is that the Death Trail?” She pointed to a path in the photo that entered the forest on the manor’s gable side.</p>
         <p id="p881">Frederik nodded. “It was called that in the old days, because they used it to haul the dying down to the sacrificial oak on wagons. The director of the orphanage revived the old tradition. Back then, a lot of the young orphans were weak. They didn’t make it. They’re buried down there.”</p>
         <p id="p882">He pointed to the spot where the path vanished into the forest.</p>
         <p id="p883">Camilla hunched her shoulders. Though all this had happened many years ago, the thought gave her the jitters.</p>
         <p id="p884">“When a girl was dying, the director brought the wagon around, wrapped the sick girl up, and drove her down that path, past the graves, to the sacrificial oak. He made a sacrifice of the sick girl’s blood so the gods would accept her when she passed away.”</p>
         <p id="p885">“Is that the director standing there?” Louise asked. She pointed to a man at the edge of the photo standing straight as an arrow.</p>
         <p id="p886">Frederik nodded again.</p>
         <p id="p887">In another photo he stood surrounded by girls in identical dresses. Obviously they had been dolled up for the photographer. It all looked so pompous, but the girls did have big smiles on their faces. One of them must be Elinor, Camilla thought.</p>
         <p id="p888">“Right when Elinor moved here, one of the small girls became very sick,” Frederik said. “The director laid her in the wagon and drove down to the sacrificial oak, where prayers were said for her. They held a vigil at her bed for several nights after that; everyone thought her time had come, but the girl didn’t die. Then an influenza epidemic hit the orphanage. It went on for over a year, and many of the very young girls died. It was said to be the gods’ punishment for not getting the girl.”</p>
         <p id="p889">He smiled faintly. “That was one of Mom’s favorite stories. She told it to us when we were kids, and my sister got very wrapped up in it. She pretended she was the girl who didn’t die, the one everybody else shunned because she’d caused so many of the other orphans’ deaths.”</p>
         <p id="p890">Camilla could hardly imagine her sister-in-law in that scenario. When she first met Rebecca Sachs-Smith, she’d been a businesswoman with a heart of stone. She’d changed somewhat when her daughter had been kidnapped, but even then Frederik’s sister didn’t seem to fit the role of victim.</p>
         <p id="p891">“According to Mom, this sad story ended with the poor girl drowning herself in the fjord. Mom was serious when she claimed that you could see the girl once in a while, walking around the house or standing out in the yard, dripping wet, as if she’d just walked out of the water.”</p>
         <p id="p892">The quiet in the room was intense for a moment.</p>
         <p id="p893">“Quite a place you’ve settled into,” Louise said. She smiled at her friend, now lying on the sofa with the blanket over her.</p>
      </section>
   </div>
</body>
</html>