<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8"/>
    <title/>
    <link href="css/9781455581535.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:994ca584-ac05-4eab-8400-c5fa92476f2d" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
  </head>
  <body>
   <div class="galley-rw">
      <section class="body-rw Chapter-rw short-hbg" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="Chapter26">
         <div class="title-block-rw" id="title-block31">
            <p class="title-num-rw" id="title-num26"><a href="TOC.xhtml">26</a></p>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p1193"><span class="dropcap-rw">I</span>t took only five minutes to drive from the school to the farm where Sune’s parents lived. The courtyard was deserted when Eik parked his junker Jeep Cherokee beside the big walnut tree.</p>
         <p id="p1194">He knocked a few times, then opened the door and shouted, “Hello!”</p>
         <p id="p1195">Louise followed him into the hallway. Eik shouted again, but no one answered. They waited a moment before entering the living room and calling Jane’s name. Louise walked over to the bedroom door and knocked. “Jane, it’s Louise—may I come in?”</p>
         <p id="p1196">She thought she heard a noise, and she opened the door a crack. Only a streak of sunlight broke through the edge of the closed curtains. “Jane,” she repeated.</p>
         <p id="p1197">“Louise! Have you found him?”</p>
         <p id="p1198">Louise pulled a chair over to her old friend’s bed and motioned for Eik to come in. “Jane, we’re here about Sune. My colleague spoke with Lars earlier today. He said that your son came home. We need to talk to him; we believe he might have witnessed a serious crime.”</p>
         <p id="p1199">Jane’s lips quivered, and she turned away. She took a deep breath then looked back at Louise, her eyes full of tears. She shook her head. “It’s not true. He hasn’t come home.”</p>
         <p id="p1200">She reached for Louise’s hand and squeezed it. “You have to find my son before they do! Help me…”</p>
         <p id="p1201">The rest of her words were drowned out in a long sniffle. Louise gave her the handkerchief that lay on her night table.</p>
         <p id="p1202">Louise stroked her hand mechanically.</p>
         <p id="p1203">“All I want now is to see Sune again before I die.” Jane looked up, her eyes pleading. “They drive around looking for him at night. He’s just a boy. He doesn’t understand what he’s up against!”</p>
         <p id="p1204">Louise held her hand as she leaned forward. “Jane, you need to tell us what’s happened. Is it something we haven’t heard about?”</p>
         <p id="p1205">Her old friend nodded slowly. Tears rolled down her sunken cheeks, but her voice was steady as she told them about the initiation ceremony out in the forest, the ritual everyone had been looking forward to.</p>
         <p id="p1206">“But something happened that night, and I can’t get anyone to tell me what. All Lars will say is that Sune suddenly disappeared. I know my husband; I can sense that something very bad happened, and I’m afraid that they’re going to harm Sune.”</p>
         <p id="p1207">Anxiety flared up inside Louise. Eik brought over another chair, and she made room for him.</p>
         <p id="p1208">“Tell us what you know,” he said, “and start at the beginning, so we can understand just what happened.”</p>
         <p id="p1209">The sound of his calm, low voice made Louise regret that she hadn’t let him sit by the head of the bed. Jane regarded him for a moment, as if considering what to say. Then she turned back to Louise.</p>
         <p id="p1210">“I’m not sure if you know anything about this, but it goes a long way back, to when we were kids. Klaus was a part of it, too.”</p>
         <p id="p1211">Louise lifted an eyebrow and shook her head. “What goes a long way back?”</p>
         <p id="p1212">“Their brotherhood. They made a vow to stand together and protect each other. Just like Odin and Loke. They’re blood brothers.”</p>
         <p id="p1213">Louise’s anxiety turned into an icy chill at this sudden mention of Klaus, along with things that Louise had never been aware of. “What are you talking about? Asatro?”</p>
         <p id="p1214">“So they mixed their blood?” Eik asked. “Is that what you mean? And made vows to each other?”</p>
         <p id="p1215">Jane nodded, her head barely leaving the pile of pillows. “You could put it that way. It’s just more complicated; it’s something peculiar to our group, and they take it very seriously.” She paused for a moment. “Apparently more seriously than I was aware of.”</p>
         <p id="p1216">“And how is your son mixed up in this?” Eik asked.</p>
         <p id="p1217">“I don’t know exactly what happens during the ritual. It’s only for the men. It’s secret. They call it a rite of passage. A sacrifice must be made in order to gain something. They call themselves blood brothers, a term with roots in Nordic mythology. That’s where our beliefs come from.”</p>
         <p id="p1218">Louise could hear the fear behind her words.</p>
         <p id="p1219">“The boys are accepted into the brotherhood at their initiation ceremonies. It’s different for girls, more like a confirmation without a priest. Girls confirm their belief in the Nordic gods and they’re accepted among the adults. But it’s special for the boys, becoming part of the inner circle. They make a vow to support each other. It’s a male thing. Sune had been looking forward to it for a whole year, and that’s where he was the evening he ran away.”</p>
         <p id="p1220">It sounded more like an initiation into a biker club to Louise, but that’s also how Thomsen and his gang seemed to think of themselves.</p>
         <p id="p1221">“Do they also vow to avenge each other?” Eik asked.</p>
         <p id="p1222">Jane’s expression darkened. She nodded. “Yes, exactly. But what keeps me awake at night is the part of the oath that says, if you leave the fellowship you’re an outcast. I don’t know what’s happened, but ever since you told us that Sune was hiding in the forest, I’ve feared the worst.”</p>
         <p id="p1223">They sat for a while in silence. Finally Louise asked who was in the inner circle, and who would have been in the forest the evening Sune disappeared. She was afraid she knew the answer.</p>
         <p id="p1224">Jane stared straight ahead for a few moments, then spoke to Louise. “Thomsen, of course, and John Knudsen from Særløse. Do you remember him? They called him Pussy.”</p>
         <p id="p1225">Louise nodded.</p>
         <p id="p1226">“And Lars Hemmingsen, he also ran around with Ole Thomsen back then, even though he lived out in Såby.”</p>
         <p id="p1227">“The mason?” Louise asked. She was fairly certain he was the man Camilla had fired during the renovation of Ingersminde; when Frederik had refused to let him work as a moonlighter to avoid paying tax, he’d begun to work slower.</p>
         <p id="p1228">“Yes. And my Lars. And René Gamst. Though he wasn’t there that night, of course. I don’t know if there are more. I’ve always just assumed it was the same group from the old days, back in school.”</p>
         <p id="p1229">They hadn’t mentioned the body of the young prostitute, and Louise started to ask Jane about her when Eik leaned forward.</p>
         <p id="p1230">“Why haven’t you told the police about this before?” he asked.</p>
         <p id="p1231">Jane stared blankly for a moment. “I didn’t dare. I didn’t dare turn their anger on us, with me lying here like this.”</p>
         <p id="p1232">She paused for a moment. “But what do I have to lose now?” she mumbled, as if she was talking to herself. “At any rate, nothing is more important than my son.”</p>
         <p id="p1233">She was beginning to fade. Louise realized that the person in the most trouble from Jane talking to the police was Jane’s husband.</p>
         <p id="p1234">“I know Sune well enough to know he’d come home if he could, that he’d want to be with me at the end. I’ve heard Lars get up many nights, I’ve seen the car lights when he backs out. Sune is out there, and I believe he’s afraid.”</p>
         <p id="p1235">“We found the body of a young prostitute in the forest where Sune is hiding,” Eik said. “She disappeared the same night as your son, and we think he might’ve seen something, and now he’s too frightened to come home. Do you know anything about this?”</p>
         <p id="p1236">For a moment Jane looked as if she had fallen asleep, but then she shook her head and opened her eyes. “Did she die that night?”</p>
         <p id="p1237">“It’s too early to say. But no one has seen her since she dropped her son off at her sister’s, on the way to a job.”</p>
         <p id="p1238">Jane hid her face in her thin hands. “The men perform a fertility ritual.”</p>
         <p id="p1239">She paused, her face still hidden.</p>
         <p id="p1240">“And they…” Eik said.</p>
         <p id="p1241">“And they hire a prostitute…”</p>
         <p id="p1242">Jane’s shoulders began to shake.</p>
         <p id="p1243">“They share a prostitute?” Louise said, almost shouting now. Immediately Eik laid a hand on her arm.</p>
         <p id="p1244">Jane lowered her hands from her face. “I don’t know, but I think that’s what happens. Lars has never talked about it. What I’ve heard comes from Ditte, the bricklayer’s wife. Once they had an argument, and he told her that even though the prostitute was young, and a lot of the men shared her, she was a lot better than what he was getting at home, which was nothing.”</p>
         <p id="p1245">“Christ,” Louise whispered.</p>
         <p id="p1246">A car outside drove up to the house.</p>
         <p id="p1247">“Find Sune.” Jane gripped Louise’s arm. “Find him before they do.”</p>
         <div class="decoration-rw" id="decoration17">
            <p class="center-rw" id="p1248">*  *  *</p>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p1249">Louise had almost reached the kitchen when the front door opened. The butcher walked in.</p>
         <p id="p1250">“Are you going to tell us what happened out in the forest, the night Sune disappeared?” she snarled. She walked up to him. “Your son isn’t home.”</p>
         <p id="p1251">“We take care of our own. We never asked you to butt in.” The butcher’s face was expressionless.</p>
         <p id="p1252">“You lied to us,” Louise said. “That’s bad enough. But you’re also withholding information from the police, and I intend to press charges if you don’t start cooperating.”</p>
         <p id="p1253">His face hardened, but she didn’t stop. “And if we find out that you or your friends are connected with the murder of the young prostitute we just dug up in the forest, I’m going after you and I’m going to put you away. For a long, long, long time. Do you understand?”</p>
         <p id="p1254">Louise knew there could be trouble if the butcher had the smarts to complain that the police had threatened him. It was a small risk to take, she thought. And worth it.</p>
      </section>
   </div>
</body>
</html>