<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8"/>
    <title/>
    <link href="css/9781455581535.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:994ca584-ac05-4eab-8400-c5fa92476f2d" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
  </head>
  <body>
   <div class="galley-rw">
      <section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="Chapter27">
         <div class="title-block-rw" id="title-block32">
            <p class="title-num-rw" id="title-num27"><a href="TOC.xhtml">27</a></p>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p1255"><span class="dropcap-rw">W</span>e have to find that boy, and now,” Louise said, back in the car with Eik. “If Sune saw Thomsen and his gang kill Lisa Maria, they’re going to stop him from talking.”</p>
         <p id="p1256">“What kind of a father is this butcher?” Eik said. She’d never heard him so angry before. He drove way too fast down the narrow gravel driveway; Louise put a hand on his arm to calm him down. He seemed to be channeling all his anger through the gas pedal, and he didn’t slow down until he rammed his head against the roof of the car after hitting a pothole. “You just can’t treat your child that way.”</p>
         <p id="p1257">“You’re right.” Louise said. “This is how people behave when they get involved with Ole Thomsen. He and his buddies have their own rules, and unfortunately too many people get tangled up in them.”</p>
         <p id="p1258">She’d never heard about the brotherhood, but she wasn’t surprised. Especially after Klaus’s parents telling her about the janitor and Gudrun. They covered up for each other; they always had. She couldn’t care less what they called themselves, but she wasn’t going to let them get away with forcing a fifteen-year-old boy into this sick form of solidarity.</p>
         <p id="p1259">“Pull over; let’s wait until we know where we’re going.”</p>
         <p id="p1260">Before he got out of the car for a cigarette and to let Charlie run, she was calling Nymand to make sure he was organizing the search for Sune. “I believe a group of men from around Hvalsø murdered the prostitute,” Louise said. She explained that the boy had likely witnessed the killing. “And I suspect that they’re looking for him, because he’s a witness and can testify against them. We have to protect him.” When Nymand asked why she suspected all this, she told him about the initiation the night the prostitute disappeared. “If they can’t be directly tied to the murder, we at least need to talk to them. They were in the area at that time.”</p>
         <p id="p1261">Nymand cleared his throat. “There’s nothing in the preliminary results from Forensics that points to her being killed in the forest. I’m afraid we’re going to have to wait.”</p>
         <p id="p1262">“Shit!” Louise tried to calm herself down, realizing she might be pushing things because she was burning to get Big Thomsen. “Okay. But for your own sake, make sure the techs have a look at the clearing behind the girls’ graves. There’s a bonfire site, and a big oak with a partially hollow trunk. Let’s talk again when they’ve examined the area.”</p>
         <p id="p1263">Louise knew how that sounded; she was telling him how to employ his personnel, when she had absolutely nothing to do with his murder investigation. But she had to take a chance.</p>
         <p id="p1264">“Eik and I are going to talk to four of the men who were there that night.”</p>
         <p id="p1265">“Oh no you’re not!” Nymand yelled. Louise held her phone away from her ear. “If you think these specific men could be involved in the murder, my people will talk to them.”</p>
         <p id="p1266">“These specific men are involved in my investigation,” she answered. “They <i>may</i> have something to do with the murder.”</p>
         <p id="p1267">She knew it would be a feather in his cap if he could tell the media that the police already had carried out the first interrogations in the murder case. So she gave him the four names and said they had spoken with the boy’s parents. She promised to send him the report on what Jane had told them as soon as she’d written it.</p>
         <p id="p1268">“We’re very close to where two of the men live. We’ll take care of them, but the last man lives out in Kirke Såby.”</p>
         <p id="p1269">Camilla had told her that. Otherwise, she’d had no contact with the mason since she’d left Hvalsø.</p>
         <p id="p1270">“Put the screws to him,” she said. She explained that Lars Hemmingsen had admitted to his wife that he and his friends hired a prostitute once a year for a fertility ritual in the forest. “In other words, they gang-bang her to honor Freya.”</p>
         <p id="p1271">Nymand had no more to say.</p>
         <div class="decoration-rw" id="decoration18">
            <p class="center-rw" id="p1272">*  *  *</p>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p1273">“Turn to the right up here,” she said.</p>
         <p id="p1274">“Where do we start?”</p>
         <p id="p1275">“Thomsen, in Skov Hastrup. And if it turns out he’s moved in permanently with Bitten, we’ll have to take a drive into the forest.”</p>
         <p id="p1276">Louise was surprised to realize that she suddenly looked forward to confronting her old demons. She was ready.</p>
         <p id="p1277">“I think we should keep Jane out of this,” she said when they were close to Thomsen’s house. “Let’s hear what they have to say about the initiation rites. This won’t take long. I just want to see their reactions when we tell them we know about their brotherhood. When we’re finished here, we’re going to Holbæk.”</p>
         <p id="p1278">She saw that Eik wanted to know more, but he just nodded.</p>
         <div class="decoration-rw" id="decoration19">
            <p class="center-rw" id="p1279">*  *  *</p>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p1280">They turned off the highway and drove down a small road with broad ditches. Thomsen’s whitewashed farmhouse appeared just after a short curve, and immediately she spotted his Toyota Land Cruiser parked close to the house, beside an old black Mercedes.</p>
         <p id="p1281">They drove in and parked. Big Thomsen and a gray-haired man were walking around out by the woodpile behind the house. She recognized the old police chief, dressed in blue coveralls and holding a chain saw.</p>
         <p id="p1282">“Damn it!” she said. “His father’s here. Thomsen won’t tell us anything.”</p>
         <p id="p1283"><i>As if he would have anyway!</i> she thought.</p>
         <p id="p1284">Before she was even out of the car, Thomsen and his father were standing shoulder-to-shoulder, their arms crossed. They watched their visitors without a word, but when Louise and Eik began walking across the gravel parking lot, Roed Thomsen stepped forward.</p>
         <p id="p1285">They did nothing Louise could characterize as threatening, but it would be hard to look more contemptuous. Despite that, she tried to sound friendly when she said they were happy to find Thomsen at home. She didn’t offer her hand; she knew instinctively he would ignore it.</p>
         <p id="p1286">“We’d like to talk to you about Sune’s initiation. We understand you were both there that evening. Of course, you know that the boy hasn’t been seen since.”</p>
         <p id="p1287">Slowly, old Roed Thomsen turned his head and looked at his son. Big Thomsen was leaning back slightly; he appeared to be looking down at Louise. “That was a private affair,” he said.</p>
         <p id="p1288">“We’d like to hear what happened anyway,” she said. She refused to be provoked. She looked him in the eye without blinking.</p>
         <p id="p1289">For a moment he seemed to be weighing his words, but then he shook his head. “We celebrated the boy’s birthday and partied,” he said. “His father brought along some good cuts from his shop, and we drank some beer.”</p>
         <p id="p1290">Eik stepped forward. He was a big-city cop in a black leather jacket and just as tall as Ole Thomsen. He lit a cigarette in Thomsen’s face and threw the match down on his property. The fat man in overalls struggled to maintain his contempt.</p>
         <p id="p1291">“What are these rituals actually like, to get into your brotherhood?” Eik blew smoke toward the two men. “We know about the oath ring, and the business about pledging loyalty. And silence.”</p>
         <p id="p1292">Louise could have killed Eik. He was talking too much. He needed to stop.</p>
         <p id="p1293">“But what about the test of manhood? How to prove your courage.”</p>
         <p id="p1294">Now it was Eik leaning his head back, looking down at Big Thomsen, who glanced over at his father.</p>
         <p id="p1295">The old police chief laughed drily. “Boys nowadays don’t have any guts. Might be that school softens them up; it’s not like it was back when I grew up.” He asked Eik what sort of test of manhood he was talking about.</p>
         <p id="p1296">A muscle quivered under Big Thomsen’s eye, but he kept his mouth shut.</p>
         <p id="p1297">“You met out in the forest,” Eik said, unruffled by the elder Thomsen. “And made a sacrifice, I’m assuming.”</p>
         <p id="p1298">“How much do you really know about all this?”</p>
         <p id="p1299">Roed Thompson had taken over now. Even if Louise hadn’t known the old man, she would have seen that he was used to doing the talking. He did the questioning; other people didn’t question him.</p>
         <p id="p1300">“Not a whole lot,” Eik answered calmly. “I messed around with stuff like that when I was a kid.”</p>
         <p id="p1301">“It’s not something you mess around with!” Big Thomsen snorted. He gave Eik the evil eye and stepped forward. “The Church Ministry recognized Asatro as a religion ten years ago, so don’t you come here with your disrespect and mock us.”</p>
         <p id="p1302">“We’re not intending to disrespect anybody,” Eik said. He flipped his cigarette in an arc. It landed beside the Land Cruiser’s left front tire.</p>
         <p id="p1303">“Why should I stand here and tell you about something you don’t even take seriously?” Big Thomsen continued, his voice full of scorn.</p>
         <p id="p1304">“Because we’ve found the body of a young woman who disappeared the night you had your fun in the forest. And because we’re interested in what happened.”</p>
         <p id="p1305">“I don’t know anything about that,” Big Thomsen said.</p>
         <p id="p1306">“Right now, the area is being fine-combed. Every leaf is being turned over, and you can be absolutely sure we’re going to find out if there’s the slightest connection between your little party and her death.” Eik nodded at him to emphasize his point.</p>
         <p id="p1307">“You still have no right to come in here and accuse us, just because our beliefs come from nature, not the church,” Roed Thomsen spat out at him.</p>
         <p id="p1308">His hands were in the pockets of his coveralls and his chest was puffed out—it wasn’t hard to see where his son got his attitude from, Louise thought.</p>
         <p id="p1309">Eik stepped back. “We’re not accusing anyone of anything,” he said. “We’re just asking you to describe what you do. The rituals when you make sacrifices.”</p>
         <p id="p1310">“I’m going to have to ask you to leave my son’s property now, or else I’ll sue you for slander,” the old police chief said. He waved them back to their car.</p>
         <p id="p1311">“Don’t worry, I think we’ve got enough,” Louise said, looking at Big Thomsen. “We need to get to Holbæk anyway, to talk to René. Shall I tell him hello for you?”</p>
         <p id="p1312">She enjoyed seeing the marine-blue irises of his eyes turn black with anger. They both knew he had no chance to coach René about what and what not to say.</p>
      </section>
   </div>
</body>
</html>