<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8"/>
    <title/>
    <link href="css/9781455581535.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:994ca584-ac05-4eab-8400-c5fa92476f2d" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
  </head>
  <body>
   <div class="galley-rw">
      <section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="Chapter28">
         <div class="title-block-rw" id="title-block33">
            <p class="title-num-rw" id="title-num28"><a href="TOC.xhtml">28</a></p>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p1313"><span class="dropcap-rw">W</span>hat the hell happened back there?” Eik asked. He rolled the window down and lit another cigarette.</p>
         <p id="p1314">Louise was about to complain, but she let it go. She craved a cigarette, too. It wasn’t so much what the two men had said as it was the mood. As if she and Eik had rammed into a wall.</p>
         <p id="p1315">“Welcome to Hvalsø,” she said sadly, though she knew she wasn’t being fair to the rest of the town. “Where the best defense is a good offense.”</p>
         <p id="p1316">It had always been that way, she thought. It was protection, though it took some time to learn how to use it. Back when she was in school, after she got a horse, her father had started a dung heap on the other side of the road. Before long, a man from Lerbjerg began complaining. And he wasn’t even their closest neighbor. But by that time, her father had learned how the game was played; he told the man that there were lots of things you could talk about. Like how someone had run a line from their septic tank to the district’s drainage pipe, how piss and shit ran out into the nearby stream. After that, her father heard no complaints about the dung heap.</p>
         <p id="p1317">“It’s really incredible,” she said. She laughed as she remembered more of her father’s favorite stories.</p>
         <p id="p1318">“What is?” Eik said.</p>
         <p id="p1319">“When my parents bought the farm out by Lerbjerg, there were grain fields on both sides of the road, and of course they had to be harvested. My dad had never done it before. He came from Copenhagen; he knew zero about these things, so he hired one of the neighbors who owned a combine. The neighbor did the cutting, Dad stood up on the machine and tied off sacks of grain and tossed them to the ground. After that, they were supposed to be turned regularly so the grain wouldn’t rot.”</p>
         <p id="p1320">“That must’ve been a long time ago,” Eik said, even though she was sure he knew nothing about farming.</p>
         <p id="p1321">“Every time Dad went out to turn the sacks, our neighbor sat down outside his house with a cup of coffee, enjoying the sight of this big-city slicker wrestling fifty-kilo sacks of grain. Of course, the neighbor wouldn’t dream of helping, but he wasn’t shy about showing how entertaining it was to watch Dad sweat. That’s how ‘foreigners’ were treated. It’s probably different now, with all the young families from the city moving out here, but looking down on others has always been part of the mentality. Pussy lives right up here.” Louise pointed to the church on top of the hill.</p>
         <p id="p1322">John Knudsen had taken over his parents’ farm in Særløse. He’d been in the same class as Big Thomsen, and his unfortunate school nickname had stuck with him. At least as far as Louise knew.</p>
         <p id="p1323">Eik turned off and drove along the churchyard, down a narrow gravel road—two ruts separated by tall grass that rustled against the car’s undercarriage. The road ended at a ramshackle farmhouse with a big barn. The barn door was a torn green tarp. The Knudsen family farm had gone downhill, she noticed. She’d passed by here almost every day when she was a kid, to catch the school bus.</p>
         <p id="p1324">It was the complete opposite of Thomsen’s farm, where everything was kept up. Almost too well—Louise suspected that he coerced Hvalsø’s plumbers, carpenters, and other workmen to moonlight for him. It wasn’t hard to imagine they owed him favors, which they paid back by working on his house.</p>
         <p id="p1325">Chickens ran around Pussy’s farmyard, pecking between the cobblestones, while two kids poured sand out of a red plastic bucket in front of the kitchen steps.</p>
         <p id="p1326">“Park out here,” Louise said. She looked around. A stocky woman in tights with a cigarette hanging from her mouth stood waiting outside on the steps. Another small child clung to her legs, trying to drag her back into the house.</p>
         <p id="p1327">Eik was already out of the car. He said hello to Knudsen’s wife, who nodded and pointed toward the barn behind the house. Louise didn’t recognize the woman, though it could be because of weight she’d put on from all the pregnancies.</p>
         <p id="p1328">Louise walked over and held out her hand. Now she was sure she’d never seen the woman before. “He’s over in the barn, drowning some newborn kittens,” his wife said. She made it sound as if it was something he did all the time. “But he has to pick up our oldest; she goes to gymnastics. He’ll be along in a minute.”</p>
         <p id="p1329">A gray tabby came meowing out of the house, but Pussy’s wife shoved it gently back inside with her foot before shutting the door. The young child still hung on to her.</p>
         <p id="p1330">“How many children do you have?” Eik asked. He peered over at the two in the sandbox.</p>
         <p id="p1331">“Four,” she said. She laid a hand on her stomach. “There’s another on the way. But not until Christmas.”</p>
         <p id="p1332">Eik smiled and offered his congratulations, while Louise thought about the cigarette the woman had been smoking when they arrived. The two kids in the sandbox shouted, and one of the boys began crying. The other started packing a pile of sand that looked like a steep mountain.</p>
         <p id="p1333">“They’re burying a mouse. Tjalfe wanted a real bonfire for the body, but their father won’t let them start fires when he’s not around.”</p>
         <p id="p1334">“That’s a great name,” Eik said. “Are they all named after someone in Nordic mythology?”</p>
         <p id="p1335">“Would be if it was up to my husband,” the woman said. She smiled broadly, two deep dimples coming into sight. “They’d be called Odin, Thor, and Loke, but I put my foot down.”</p>
         <p id="p1336">Eik nodded. He said that his sister had a daughter named Sigrun.</p>
         <p id="p1337">Louise didn’t even know he had a sister. In fact, she didn’t know much about his childhood, except that once he’d mentioned he grew up in Hillerød and that he had moved out at seventeen.</p>
         <p id="p1338">They heard footsteps. Two kids shouted, “Dad!”</p>
         <p id="p1339">John Knudsen’s hair had turned gray. It lay plastered on his head; he looked exactly like his father, who had always stood and waved at his son as the school bus drove away.</p>
         <p id="p1340">He turned his attention to his children, praising their grave mound before walking over to Louise and Eik. He recognized her at once, she noted, nodding shortly to her before shaking Eik’s hand. He wasn’t hostile toward them like the Thomsens had been, but he wasn’t particularly friendly, either.</p>
         <p id="p1341">“You can go on back inside,” he said to his wife. “I’ll only be a minute.”</p>
         <p id="p1342">“Good-bye,” she said, smiling at them. Her dimples deepened when Eik promised they wouldn’t be long.</p>
         <p id="p1343">When she closed the door behind her, Knudsen said he knew why they were there. Thomsen had called.</p>
         <p id="p1344">Louise regretted that they hadn’t immediately gone over to the barn.</p>
         <p id="p1345">“I don’t have anything to tell you about that evening,” he said in his broad mid-Zealand accent. “What is it you want to know, anyway?”</p>
         <p id="p1346">“We just want to know what happened,” Louise said. “What scared Sune so badly that he didn’t dare return home?”</p>
         <p id="p1347">Pussy laughed. “Oh, that; I can tell you that! That kid gets scared when someone farts. One of the boys probably let one rip.”</p>
         <p id="p1348">Louise was furious, but Eik reacted first. Knudsen was still grinning when Eik grabbed him by the collar and slammed him against the wall. “Let’s hear about the young prostitute. The one you forced out into the forest,” he hissed.</p>
         <p id="p1349">“We didn’t force anybody. We paid her,” he gasped as Eik tightened his grip on his blue-checkered lumberjack shirt.</p>
         <p id="p1350">“And after you boys had your fun, you killed her!” Eik held him a moment longer before letting go. Knudsen’s knees buckled as he struggled to catch his breath.</p>
         <p id="p1351">Louise saw his wife looking out the living room window.</p>
         <p id="p1352">“Did you kill her?” Eik asked.</p>
         <p id="p1353">Knudsen held his throat with both hands, his eyes unfocused. “We didn’t kill anybody,” he said, shaking his head.</p>
         <p id="p1354">“We found her body out there,” Eik said.</p>
         <p id="p1355">Pussy looked down at the ground.</p>
         <p id="p1356">Louise took over. “Did you kill a young woman out in Boserup Forest?” The kids in the sandbox stared wide-eyed at them.</p>
         <p id="p1357">Pussy shook his head violently. He’d recovered enough now to pull himself together. “What are you talking about? Of course we didn’t.”</p>
         <p id="p1358">“Who was out there with you that night?”</p>
         <p id="p1359">His expression turned blank. “I have to drive over and pick my daughter up,” he said, and started off to his car.</p>
         <p id="p1360">Louise nodded. She glanced at Eik; they’d gotten enough for now. Pussy had admitted that they’d paid Lisa Maria to go along with them to the forest, a statement he could hardly deny later—she’d recorded him on her phone.</p>
      </section>
   </div>
</body>
</html>