<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8"/>
    <title/>
    <link href="css/9781455581535.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:994ca584-ac05-4eab-8400-c5fa92476f2d" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
  </head>
  <body>
   <div class="galley-rw">
      <section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="Chapter30">
         <div class="title-block-rw" id="title-block35">
            <p class="title-num-rw" id="title-num30"><a href="TOC.xhtml">30</a></p>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p1481"><span class="dropcap-rw">S</span>une had a stomachache, but for once it wasn’t from hunger. The thought of meeting his father at the sacrificial oak had plagued him all day long, but he still didn’t know what he would say.</p>
         <p id="p1482">He began to cry. He felt all alone, and he missed his mother so much that he felt powerless to act, unable to work up the will to keep going.</p>
         <p id="p1483">The sun had disappeared, leaving the forest in the dim of the Danish summer night as he approached the oak tree. His father sat with his back against the trunk, his big hands folded around his knees. He didn’t seem angry. Just sad. A terrifying thought hit Sune: His mother was dead. He walked over to his father in dread.</p>
         <p id="p1484">“Has anything happened?” he whispered. “To Mom?”</p>
         <p id="p1485">His father shook his head.</p>
         <p id="p1486">“How is she?”</p>
         <p id="p1487">“She’s bad, but she’s fighting. All that’s keeping her alive is the hope that she’ll see you again.”</p>
         <p id="p1488">Sune felt a horrible sorrow, a black, leaden weight around his heart.</p>
         <p id="p1489">“The police have been by again,” his father said. He sounded tired. “Will you please come home?”</p>
         <p id="p1490">Sune didn’t answer. The only sound was the wind swishing through the trees.</p>
         <p id="p1491">“They found the girl,” Sune finally said.</p>
         <p id="p1492">“I know. That’s also why I’m asking you to come home now. You’re born into this, there’s nothing we can do about that.”</p>
         <p id="p1493">“But…” The words nearly stuck in Sune’s throat. “She was murdered! The police will figure it out!”</p>
         <p id="p1494">“That’s another reason why you have to get out of here. People will think you did it.”</p>
         <p id="p1495">“But I didn’t!”</p>
         <p id="p1496">“People will think you did.”</p>
         <p id="p1497">A deep voice spoke from behind Sune. “If you don’t hold the ring and take your oath with the rest of us, you <i>are</i> the one who killed her.”</p>
         <p id="p1498">Terrified, Sune whirled around and saw the gothi step out of the darkness. His father got to his feet and held him from behind to protect him.</p>
         <p id="p1499">“We can’t cover for you if you’re not one of us,” the gothi said. He walked over to them. “We’ll have to say you’re responsible for what happened out here.”</p>
         <p id="p1500">“But I’m telling the police what you did to her.”</p>
         <p id="p1501">The gothi reached out to grab Sune. His father desperately held on to him. “Leave my son alone,” he yelled. “I’ll take care of this.”</p>
         <p id="p1502">Sune saw the chunk of firewood in the gothi’s hand, saw him raise it, and heard it crack against his father’s head. He fell along with his father, and before he knew it he was grabbed roughly and hauled out of the clearing. “This boy belongs to the gods, whether he likes it or not.”</p>
         <p id="p1503">“Stop!” his father shouted, or tried to; his voice was thick and groggy.</p>
      </section>
   </div>
</body>
</html>