<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8"/>
    <title/>
    <link href="css/9781455581535.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:994ca584-ac05-4eab-8400-c5fa92476f2d" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
  </head>
  <body>
   <div class="galley-rw">
      <section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="Chapter34">
         <div class="title-block-rw" id="title-block39">
            <p class="title-num-rw" id="title-num34"><a href="TOC.xhtml">34</a></p>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p1614"><span class="dropcap-rw">T</span>he butcher’s white van was parked in the middle of the lot, as if it had been abandoned in haste. Otherwise the farmhouse looked dark and deserted.</p>
         <p id="p1615">Louise was apprehensive, less about the quiet than about her uncertainty—about not knowing what awaited her. She had the unmistakable sense that something was slipping away.</p>
         <p id="p1616">Eik slammed the car door behind her. As she walked up to the door, she flashed on an image of Jane’s pleading expression. She hoped with all her heart that the family was finally together. Hoped that Sune had been taken to his parents, and right now he was sitting beside his mother’s bed. But she couldn’t forget the horse’s head. The threat and the skirmish out in the forest pointed in a different direction, toward some sort of a showdown.</p>
         <p id="p1617">Louise knocked, and after a moment she tried the door. It was open. She listened for sounds from the house, then stepped inside. The kitchen was empty, as was the living room, but the door to Jane’s bedroom stood open a crack. Louise looked around. A phone and a wallet lay on the dining room table. A pair of slippers had been kicked off over by the sofa; a wrinkled blanket hung over its arm and down to the floor.</p>
         <p id="p1618">“Hello,” she cried out. She walked to the door. “Anybody here?”</p>
         <p id="p1619">She stopped. She thought she heard a sound, cloth or some material being rubbed, but no one answered. Then she heard someone breathing in heavily and sniffling.</p>
         <p id="p1620">Louise pushed the door open. The butcher sat hunched over in a chair beside the empty bed. His forearms rested on his thighs, and his hands hung down. His face was pale and streaked with tears, his eyes red and shiny. <i>Here is a man falling to pieces</i>, Louise thought. The bed was made, the comforter’s cover smooth, the pillows fluffed up.</p>
         <p id="p1621">Suddenly she had difficulty breathing, as if air wasn’t reaching her lungs. Fragments of sentences, images from school, long-forgotten memories swarmed inside her head. She and Jane exploring Hammershus during a camping trip to Bornholm. Summers with swimming lessons in Uggerløse’s outdoor pool, where she reached her hundred- and thousand-meter levels. The school bus had picked them up beside Skolesøen every morning, and when school was out they went to the grill and ate French fries.</p>
         <p id="p1622">She laid a hand on the butcher’s shoulder. He didn’t say a word, but his eyes followed her movements. Now he sat up and looked over at the doorway where Eik was standing. His mouth trembled, but he pressed his lips together and formed what ended up as a grimace.</p>
         <p id="p1623">Louise pointed to the bed and raised her eyebrows.</p>
         <p id="p1624">The butcher shook his head. “Jane is at her parents. She’s left me.”</p>
         <p id="p1625"><i>A dying woman doesn’t leave her husband</i>, Louise thought. Her anxiety returned.</p>
         <p id="p1626">“Did you tell her that you ran away yesterday instead of staying and helping your son?” Eik asked.</p>
         <p id="p1627">The butcher lowered his head. “I didn’t run away,” he said softly. Not as an excuse. More to inform them. “I followed the people, who rescued Sune, up to their manor. I watched them take him inside. I don’t expect you to understand, but believe me, my son is safer there than with me.”</p>
         <p id="p1628">He buried his face in his hands, his thick fingers seeming to hold his desperation. “They can’t do this to me.” His voice was hoarse. “To him. He’s just a boy. I don’t know where to take him so they can’t find him. I don’t know how to protect him.”</p>
         <p id="p1629">He whispered the last words. Then he sat up. “I have to go get him; we have to get away from here. There’s just so much. What’ll I do with the shop? And what about Jane? I’m not sure she’s strong enough to be moved again. She didn’t have the strength to even speak to me last night when I called.”</p>
         <p id="p1630">Eik walked over to the bed and sat beside Louise. She would have given the butcher a few more minutes, but Eik took over. “Unfortunately it’s too late.”</p>
         <p id="p1631">His voice was neutral, no hint of accusation or blame. At first it seemed as if the butcher hadn’t understood what he said, but then he looked angrily at Eik.</p>
         <p id="p1632">“What do you mean, too late?” he sneered. “If you’re going to sic social services on us, go right ahead. But I’ll be damned if you’re going to stop me from trying to protect my boy!”</p>
         <p id="p1633">“Sune’s not at the manor anymore,” Eik said. He explained that someone had broken into the house during the night. “This morning he was gone.”</p>
         <p id="p1634">The butcher’s arms fell; he stared silently at Eik, as if trying to understand what had been said.</p>
         <p id="p1635">“They stuck a post in the ground with a horse’s head on top, just outside their door,” Louise said. “What should we make of that?”</p>
         <p id="p1636">The butcher’s face twisted and strained. Desperation, Louise thought. That’s what it looked like. Genuine desperation and fear.</p>
         <p id="p1637">“They’ll kill him,” he whispered. “The nithing pole means that they’re turning against the people who were hiding Sune. And they’ll sacrifice Sune to the gods as punishment for breaking out of the brotherhood.”</p>
         <p id="p1638">“You don’t kill somebody for leaving a group of friends,” Louise said. Then Klaus came to mind.</p>
         <p id="p1639">“This is no group of friends,” he said. “I thought you of all people had that figured out. This is hell. No one gets out.”</p>
      </section>
   </div>
</body>
</html>