<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8"/>
    <title/>
    <link href="css/9781455581535.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:994ca584-ac05-4eab-8400-c5fa92476f2d" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
  </head>
  <body>
   <div class="galley-rw">
      <section class="body-rw Chapter-rw short-hbg" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="Chapter38">
         <div class="title-block-rw" id="title-block43">
            <p class="title-num-rw" id="title-num38"><a href="TOC.xhtml">38</a></p>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p1743"><span class="dropcap-rw">T</span>hey left Bitten’s house immediately after Camilla’s call. When Thomsen had demanded to know what was going on, they told him to shut up.</p>
         <p id="p1744">Eik dumped Big Thomsen off at the roundabout near Særløse. Louise ignored his bitching about not being driven all the way home. She knew they were going to hear about it.</p>
         <p id="p1745">Thomsen pounded his fist on the hood. “You’ll find your way home,” Eik said from his open window. Before the big man could answer, Eik put the car in gear and floored it, gravel rocketing off the car’s undercarriage. Louise watched in the side mirror as Thomsen stood yelling. Nymand called.</p>
         <p id="p1746">“The father is on his way in. The boy is in emergency, he’s in critical condition.”</p>
         <div class="decoration-rw" id="decoration22">
            <p class="center-rw" id="p1747">*  *  *</p>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p1748">The first thing she noticed when they walked into the hospital was the butcher, hunched over in a chair, crying. Louise stopped. Eik put his hand on her back. “I’ll find Nymand. Go on over to him.” He approached a receptionist in a white coat who had just come out of her glassed-in office.</p>
         <p id="p1749">Louise studied the butcher for a moment. When they’d left him earlier in the day at his home, he’d looked like a man about to fall apart. Now it had happened.</p>
         <p id="p1750">“Hi,” she said quietly. She sat down beside him. “Have you heard anything?”</p>
         <p id="p1751">He shook his head and breathed in deeply. They sat for a while in the turmoil of the emergency room. A child screamed in the waiting room, and a nurse rushed off.</p>
         <p id="p1752">“Come inside,” a low voice said. Louise looked up into the face of a black woman. “You shouldn’t have to sit out here. You can use the lounge; no one will have time for a break the next few hours anyway.”</p>
         <p id="p1753">Her badge identified her as a head physician. Louise felt a pang of shame over being surprised that she spoke fluent Danish.</p>
         <p id="p1754">“When can I see him?” the butcher asked, unaware of anything except that this person could tell him something about his son.</p>
         <p id="p1755">“We’ll join him in a moment,” the doctor said. She put a hand on his shoulder and led him to a chair at the long table. “But there’s something I have to tell you first.”</p>
         <p id="p1756">The butcher froze.</p>
         <p id="p1757">“I’ve come down from the oncology ward. Your wife was admitted early this morning, and it was decided at our morning conference that she should receive terminal care.”</p>
         <p id="p1758">The butcher, obviously confused, looked first at her, then at Louise. “What does that mean?”</p>
         <p id="p1759">“That means that we’ve stopped her treatment. But we need your permission to remove nutrition support and stop providing her with fluids. We’ll continue with medication for pain.”</p>
         <p id="p1760">Again he looked at Louise, who felt tears welling up. She held his hand. “It means that Jane is about to die, Lars.” She pressed her lips together and blinked until her eyes cleared. “You’re her nearest relative; they need your permission. If they keep giving her fluids and nutrition, her death will only be delayed, and it could be a long process.” She looked over at the doctor, who was sitting at his other side.</p>
         <p id="p1761">“Unfortunately, there’s no more we can do for your wife,” she explained. “She’s entered the final phase, and right now she’s semiconscious. She sleeps most of the time. We’re making sure she’s in no pain. We can’t say exactly how long it will be. It might happen today, or it might take several days, maybe a week. Of course this is more difficult, now that your son has been admitted.”</p>
         <p id="p1762">The butcher had begun shaking his head, mechanically, from side to side. Louise could see he was unaware of what he was doing. She caught herself pressing her hands against her stomach.</p>
         <p id="p1763">“But Sune?” he whispered. “What about him?”</p>
         <p id="p1764">“Your son is on the way to intensive care. He’s lost a lot of blood. His pulse is rapid, but very weak. He was very close to bleeding to death. We’re giving him fluids and oxygen while we prepare a blood transfusion.”</p>
         <p id="p1765">“Is he going to make it?” he whispered without looking at her.</p>
         <p id="p1766">“It’s too early to say,” the doctor answered. “He was in bad shape before he received treatment.”</p>
         <p id="p1767">Louise couldn’t handle it any longer. Tears ran down her cheeks as she stood up. “We’ve arranged for your wife to be taken down to his room, so they can be together,” was the last thing she heard before walking out.</p>
         <div class="decoration-rw" id="decoration23">
            <p class="center-rw" id="p1768">*  *  *</p>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p1769">At six thirty the butcher walked into the ICU’s family room, which the duty nurse had given them permission to use. Louise and Eik had been driving back to Copenhagen when Nymand called and said that the boy’s father had asked to speak with them.</p>
         <p id="p1770">He was pale when he sat down across from them, his eyes dark and red-rimmed. He seemed to be staring through them. “Right now the doctors think there’s a chance he’ll survive.” He folded his hands on the table, as if he needed support. “But Jane won’t. They pushed her bed up against Sune so she can reach his hand. I don’t know how much she understands, but she knows he’s there. She spoke his name.”</p>
         <p id="p1771">At first his crying was silent, then he began sobbing from deep within. He shook his head and stood up, walked over to the sink in the corner of the room, grabbed a paper towel, and blew his nose. He stood for a moment with his back to them before throwing the paper in the trash and returning to the table.</p>
         <p id="p1772">“I’m sorry,” he mumbled. He breathed very deeply, as if to compose himself. “I told you that Big Thomsen’s gang isn’t your normal group of friends,” he said to Louise. “It’s like some sect that none of us can get out of. I want you to know I always respected Klaus, a lot, because he tried. After what’s happened today, I’ll never forgive myself for not having the same courage.”</p>
         <p id="p1773">Louise felt empty inside. What good was courage when you died because of it?</p>
         <p id="p1774">“I want to tell you how it started.”</p>
         <p id="p1775">She felt Eik’s arm around her shoulder, and she leaned back, tense now. She thought she’d heard the whole story.</p>
         <p id="p1776">“Do you remember Eline? Thomsen’s little sister?”</p>
         <p id="p1777">Louise tried to think: Thomsen had a sister? Then she remembered her, a pale, thin girl who had been in her little brother’s class. She had also been in a photo on Thomsen’s dresser. She nodded slowly; the girl had been sick, though she couldn’t recall what it was.</p>
         <p id="p1778">“It’s a really sad story,” the butcher continued, looking down at his hands. “When you’re young, being around sickness and death can overwhelm you.”</p>
         <p id="p1779">His expression and, in particular, the way he talked about Eline told Louise that something had affected him deeply.</p>
         <p id="p1780">He looked up. “I don’t know, maybe I’m just trying to justify what happened.”</p>
         <p id="p1781">“What was wrong with her?” Eik asked. He’d stuck a match in his mouth, a substitute for a cigarette.</p>
         <p id="p1782">He ignored the question. “I’ve thought about it a thousand times. Back then, none of us understood the consequences. You can’t, not when you’re just teenagers. We thought we could save her. It turned out we couldn’t.”</p>
         <p id="p1783">He was practically talking to himself now, Louise thought. He straightened up. “Thomsen had taken his sister up in this tree house he’d built. He wanted to show her the view. That was in 1983, when she was eight years old. A limb broke, she fell down on the left side of her back, but she kept on playing, she felt okay. After dinner that night she started complaining about pain. She got worse as the night went on, and they ended up taking her to the emergency room. The doctors told them she was bleeding internally, that she had ruptured her spleen.”</p>
         <p id="p1784">The butcher paused for a moment. “She had to have a blood transfusion, it was a matter of life or death,” he said, quieter now. “And that’s how she contracted HIV. The blood hadn’t been treated. Five years later she had AIDS.”</p>
         <p id="p1785">“But that doesn’t make it anyone’s fault that she died,” Louise said. “The girl suffered from a serious illness.”</p>
         <p id="p1786">The butcher shook his head. “Eline didn’t die from AIDS. Thomsen killed her. She’s one of the girls you found in the old graveyard.”</p>
      </section>
   </div>
</body>
</html>