<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8"/>
    <title/>
    <link href="css/9781455581535.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:994ca584-ac05-4eab-8400-c5fa92476f2d" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
  </head>
  <body>
   <div class="galley-rw">
      <section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="Chapter41">
         <div class="title-block-rw" id="title-block46">
            <p class="title-num-rw" id="title-num41"><a href="TOC.xhtml">41</a></p>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p1861"><span class="dropcap-rw">P</span>izza, cola, and French fries covered the table, like a cliché about how the police ate when they were working feverishly. They sat inside the Roskilde Police Station, Louise with half a pepperoni pizza in front of her. She felt as if she was mooching, because she and Eik had done their job: They’d found the boy and reunited him with his family. But there were a few details to take care of.</p>
         <p id="p1862">Every time Louise saw the image in her head of Jane lying in bed, holding her son’s hand, she swallowed. She’d thought she had control of her emotions; she shook her head at the memory of all the sessions with Homicide’s psychologist to learn how to separate her emotions from her work. At the same time, she could hear Sune’s voice. Homicide’s leader had always maintained that people without empathy could never be good investigators. They didn’t belong in his division.</p>
         <p id="p1863">Louise blinked quickly a few times when Nymand said that one of the two bodies found along with Lisa Maria had just been identified. “We haven’t notified next of kin yet,” he said, with a look that said the following information was extremely confidential.</p>
         <p id="p1864">“The body is that of a young woman, Anette Mikkelsen. She disappeared in 2005, shortly after her twenty-third birthday. She worked as a prostitute.” He paused and glanced around the group of policemen.</p>
         <p id="p1865">“I know the identity of the last one,” Louise said, quickly wiping her fingers on a napkin. “Her name is Eline Thomsen. She was the daughter of your former police chief.” Nymand turned to her, surprised. “The girl was thirteen years old when she died in 1988. Her brother and his friends buried her out there, but her father forced them to do it.”</p>
         <p id="p1866">Nymand lifted his eyebrows in disbelief. “And where did you come up with that insane allegation?”</p>
         <p id="p1867">She ignored the look he gave her. “It’s not an allegation. I have a witness who described what happened. He helped bury her.”</p>
         <p id="p1868">“I think we should keep Roed Thomsen out of this. His son might be a bad apple, but there’s no reason to bring accusations against a man well respected in the community for many, many years.”</p>
         <p id="p1869">“If you don’t believe me, I suggest you investigate what happened to the daughter when she disappeared in 1988. My guess is you’ll find she was reported missing and no one has seen her since.”</p>
         <p id="p1870">Nymand shook his head at her and changed the subject. “I’ve also spoken to your forensic pathologist, Flemming Larsen. He’s finished with the examination of the body we dug up at Hvalsø Cemetery.”</p>
         <p id="p1871"><i>Her</i> pathologist? Louise thought. It was quiet in the room. She saw from the looks on several faces that no one knew what he was talking about. Apparently they hadn’t heard there was another body involved.</p>
         <p id="p1872">She nodded without replying.</p>
         <p id="p1873">“They found the old report from the inquest.” He turned to the others in the room. “It took place in the house where the deceased was cut down from a rope in the hall.” He explained that it concerned a twenty-one-year-old man who had been part of Ole Thomsen’s gang. He tactfully left out Louise’s connection.</p>
         <p id="p1874">“The report states that the deceased was found with his legs slightly bent. There was lividity in the hands, feet, and lower legs, which is consistent with hanging.”</p>
         <p id="p1875">Nymand looked at Louise. “During the autopsy, Larsen found he’d sustained a hard blow to the back of his head.” Now he read from the paper in front of him. “The lines of fracture issue from the middle of the back of the head in several directions, and some evidence still exists of a subdural hematoma.”</p>
         <p id="p1876">He looked up again at Louise. “Do you know about the suicide note found in the house?”</p>
         <p id="p1877">Every eye in the room was glued on her. She wanted to duck her head, but she just nodded.</p>
         <p id="p1878"><i>I’m sorry.</i> That’s all the note said. He hadn’t even signed it, or addressed it to her. When she was told about it, she had asked not to see it.</p>
         <p id="p1879">Nymand stuffed the papers back into the plastic dossier file. “We’re going to investigate this. We’ll have an analysis made of the handwriting. I assume you still have something bearing his signature?”</p>
         <p id="p1880">Louise nodded again. She thought about her small suitcase up in the attic, filled with pictures and letters from her past. Some of them came from Klaus.</p>
         <p id="p1881">The meeting continued with a list of what had been seized at Pussy’s farm. Illegal agricultural products, poisons, Polish soda pop, vacuum-packed meat in a large freezer in the barn. At the mason’s, they had confiscated large piles of cash and some receipts that the people at the Economic Crimes Unit would entertain themselves with for some time. Double-entry bookkeeping, black-market money, value-added tax fraud. None of this surprised Louise.</p>
         <p id="p1882">Nymand didn’t mention Gudrun or the janitor from Såby. She knew that a few of his people already had spoken with René Gamst, who was still prepared to testify against Ole Thomsen. She suggested that they also speak with Lars Frandsen.</p>
         <p id="p1883">“He can also tell you about Gudrun and the janitor. And about Roed Thomsen’s daughter.”</p>
         <p id="p1884">The meeting continued. They were planning to arrest Big Thomsen and his gang that very evening. Presumably the men would be interrogated immediately, though it was possible they would be stashed in cells until the next morning. But Louise had no doubt they at least would be shaken that evening to see what fell out. It was still unclear if others were seriously involved in the gang.</p>
         <p id="p1885">“Should we take off?” Eik whispered in her ear.</p>
         <p id="p1886">She pushed her chair back to stand up. She glanced around at the personnel who were about to begin what would be a long, arduous shift. For a moment she envied them, but she knew she couldn’t be part of this, no matter what. Her focus wouldn’t be on the young prostitute or Sune. Or on Klaus, Eline, the janitor, or Gudrun. For her it would be a personal vendetta against Big Thomsen. She felt relieved to know that despite everything, she was professional enough to realize this.</p>
         <p id="p1887">“Good luck,” she said. She followed Eik out into the hall.</p>
         <p id="p1888">On the way to the car, she reached over and pulled a cigarette out of the inside pocket of his leather jacket. Without a word, he handed her his lighter.</p>
      </section>
   </div>
</body>
</html>