<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8"/>
    <title/>
    <link href="css/9781455581535.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:994ca584-ac05-4eab-8400-c5fa92476f2d" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
  </head>
  <body>
   <div class="galley-rw">
      <section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="Chapter43">
         <div class="title-block-rw" id="title-block48">
            <p class="title-num-rw" id="title-num43"><a href="TOC.xhtml">43</a></p>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p1921"><span class="dropcap-rw">F</span>or a moment she didn’t know where she was. She didn’t know how long she’d slept, only that she’d been far away, deep into a dream. She and Eik had talked for a long time in bed the night before, then she’d pulled him over on top of her, and when he’d asked her solemnly if she was sure, she’d pressed her lips against his neck and nodded.</p>
         <p id="p1922">Now, returning to the surface, she heard shouting and a piercing, wailing sound. Eik was shaking her, throwing her clothes on the bed.</p>
         <p id="p1923">“Get up, it’s a fire!” he yelled.</p>
         <p id="p1924">The door to the room burst open. Thick smoke rolled in as Frederik, holding his T-shirt against his mouth, signaled for them to get out—<i>now!</i> Through the noise of roaring flames, she heard Camilla scream.</p>
         <p id="p1925">“Jonas!” Louise yelled. “Are the boys out?”</p>
         <p id="p1926">Eik pulled his pants up as he ran out. Camilla screamed again, and Louise only took time to grab her T-shirt before she was out the door. She saw her friend through the smoke, leaning over something at the end of the hall, just outside their bedroom.</p>
         <p id="p1927">Louise ran over to her. Flames from the stairs shot up the heavy curtains covering the tall windows in the hall.</p>
         <p id="p1928">“I can’t get her up!” Camilla sobbed. “This shitty fucking leg!”</p>
         <p id="p1929">Elinor lay on the floor. Her long braid had almost burned off, and her skin was singed. Quickly Louise knelt down, and with Camilla’s help she lifted the old woman up in the fireman’s carry her father had used when little Louise was too tired to go to bed herself.</p>
         <p id="p1930">Frederik returned. His face was black and he was coughing so terribly he could hardly stand straight as he dragged Camilla along. A fire extinguisher droned from below, but the fire there on the second floor had taken hold of the carpet.</p>
         <p id="p1931">Louise pinned Elinor’s thin body to her shoulder with both arms. She screamed with all her might as she ran to the stairs and blindly flung herself down through the flames, trying to keep her balance, taking every other step until she stumbled and fell near the bottom. She felt a tug from behind, as if hidden forces were sucking her away from the fire.</p>
         <p id="p1932">Everything seemed quiet now. Then she realized she was inside herself, in a silent film playing in slow motion. Elinor lay on the ground. Tønnesen leaned over her, and slowly Louise understood that he must have pulled them out of the house. Camilla stood hugging Marcus, who was in his undershorts.</p>
         <p id="p1933">Jonas!</p>
         <p id="p1934">“Where’s Jonas?” she screamed. She was instantly on her feet, the silent film having vanished. The skin on her leg stung; her hair stank. “Where’s Jonas?” she screamed again. “Is he out here?” She ignored the gravel under her bare feet.</p>
         <p id="p1935">“Eik and Frederik went in after him.” Camilla hugged her son tightly while staring up at his bedroom on the second floor.</p>
         <p id="p1936">There came a deafening blast; one of the tall windows on the second floor had exploded, and flames shot out of the hole and climbed up the outer wall, as if they were trying to reach the roof.</p>
         <p id="p1937">Louise’s throat was raw as she screamed again for Jonas. “Is there anywhere else they can get down if they can’t use the stairway?”</p>
         <p id="p1938">Relief overwhelmed her when Camilla pointed at the gable and said there was a fire ladder on the end of the house.</p>
         <p id="p1939">Another window exploded, flames reaching out greedily. The heat and smoke stung Louise’s eyes. Her heart was pounding, her voice raspy and broken as she asked Markus, “Was Jonas in the room when you ran out?”</p>
         <p id="p1940">“I didn’t see him. I don’t know—I thought he’d already gone down.” His voice was weak—his words blew away with the black smoke from the house.</p>
         <p id="p1941">“Ragnarok,” Camilla whispered hoarsely while stroking her son’s bare arms.</p>
         <p id="p1942">Tønnesen sprayed the flames inside. He might as well have been pissing on a bonfire.</p>
         <p id="p1943">Louise ran back to the house. She screamed her son’s name again into the thick smoke. A thunderous crash on the second floor drowned out her scream. For a moment she considered running up into the smoke-filled darkness; the fire hadn’t spread to the first floor yet; it was rising up to the peak of the roof. But she knew she’d never come down again.</p>
         <p id="p1944">Her thoughts were interrupted when a third window shattered right above her, showering glass all over the courtyard. She jumped back then ran around to the gable at the other end of the house, close to Markus’s bedroom. She heard shouting, and when she rounded the corner she saw Eik and Frederik climbing down the fire ladder. Without Jonas.</p>
         <p id="p1945">Sirens sounded like distant howling in a fog.</p>
         <p id="p1946">“Where is he?” she yelled as the two men neared the ground. She grabbed Eik before he stepped off. His hair and eyebrows were singed on his left side. He was black with soot, and the blisters on his arm had already broken.</p>
         <p id="p1947">“He wasn’t there,” he said, gasping for breath.</p>
         <p id="p1948">Frederik tumbled to the ground beside him and curled up. He had burns all over his chest, all the way down his stomach.</p>
         <p id="p1949">“Where is he?” Desperately, Louise shook Eik, as if she could make him say something to stop her panic. “Did you look everywhere? In the bathroom?”</p>
         <p id="p1950">She tried not to yell with him standing right beside her. Her blood was pounding in her veins as her muscles began to cramp.</p>
         <p id="p1951">Behind her, enormous fire engines flew toward the courtyard, but they couldn’t get close to the house because of the warden tree blocking the driveway. Louise wanted to run over to them and yell that her son was still in there somewhere, but her feet refused to do anything other than stutter nervously around.</p>
         <p id="p1952">She watched the thunderous flames raging, as if all hell had broken loose. Suddenly her shoulder stung where she’d been burned; Eik had grabbed her and was pulling her to him.</p>
         <p id="p1953">“Jonas isn’t in there,” he said, his voice wheezy and strained. He stuck something hard into the palm of her hand. “This was on his bed.”</p>
         <p id="p1954">She looked down at a polished oblong stone, with an arrow pointing up carved into it.</p>
         <p id="p1955">Eik seemed to have suddenly thought of something, because he began running to his car. Louise saw Charlie barking like crazy in the back.</p>
         <p id="p1956">Her hearing again seemed distorted. The big German shepherd’s mouth opened and closed soundlessly, the barking drowned out in the roaring fire and ambulance sirens.</p>
         <p id="p1957">Louise’s body was all pain, yet she didn’t feel it; not really. Eik let Charlie out, and they started toward her. She walked over the grass to meet them.</p>
         <p id="p1958">Elinor had already been packed into a blanket and fastened onto a stretcher, but it wasn’t until they lifted the old lady into the ambulance that Louise noticed the blanket also covered her face.</p>
         <p id="p1959">She watched them push the stretcher into the ambulance.</p>
         <p id="p1960">Camilla still held Markus; it was as if they’d both gone into shock in the midst of everything. A lieutenant wearing a helmet tried to lead her away from the courtyard, but she wouldn’t budge. She faced the fire and watched the great manor burn down. Tønnesen stood at the front steps holding his fire extinguisher.</p>
         <p id="p1961">A stretcher was placed on the ground beside Frederik. He stared straight up in the air. Finally Camilla roused herself, and she reached her husband before they lifted him onto the stretcher. Paramedics began treating his burns as they carried him to the ambulance. He had sustained the most serious injuries, having fought to get everyone out. But he was conscious, Louise noticed, as he reached out for Camilla.</p>
         <p id="p1962">The stench in the courtyard was overwhelming. Flames engulfed the peak of the roof as the glazed roof tiles exploded.</p>
         <p id="p1963">Eik joined Louise. Charlie whimpered and rubbed against his leg. “I should’ve known something was wrong,” he said quietly. He explained that during the night, Charlie had been barking so loudly that he’d taken him out and locked him in the car before he woke the whole house up. “I should have trusted him,” he added, nearly whispering now.</p>
         <p id="p1964">“What is this?” Louise asked. She showed him the stone. He held her wrist, as if he thought the stone was too heavy for her.</p>
         <p id="p1965">“It’s the rune for the war god, Tyr,” Eik said. “He was ruthless. Merciless. I think someone abducted Jonas and left this for you.”</p>
      </section>
   </div>
</body>
</html>