<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8"/>
    <title/>
    <link href="css/9781455581535.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:994ca584-ac05-4eab-8400-c5fa92476f2d" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
  </head>
  <body>
   <div class="galley-rw">
      <section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="Chapter44">
         <div class="title-block-rw" id="title-block49">
            <p class="title-num-rw" id="title-num44"><a href="TOC.xhtml">44</a></p>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p1966"><span class="dropcap-rw">L</span>ouise shrieked, screaming at the forest until everything turned black. Eik put his arm around her.</p>
         <p id="p1967">“The bastards. The fucking goddamn bastards!”</p>
         <p id="p1968">She felt no pain, not in her leg, not on her shoulder. She snapped viciously when a doctor in some weird blazing-yellow spacesuit asked her to follow so they could have a look at her injuries. “I’m not going anywhere except out to find my boy.”</p>
         <p id="p1969">She suddenly remembered that she’d left her phone beside the bed. “May I borrow your phone?” she said, civil now as she trotted after the doctor. Then she saw Nymand, walking toward her like a zombie. He’d maybe slept an hour, or possibly not at all, she noticed, before she was in his face.</p>
         <p id="p1970">“What in the hell were you thinking? Why did you let them go?” She pointed toward the house and was about to say a lot more about what Thomsen and his gang had done now. But instead she shook her head.</p>
         <p id="p1971">“They have Jonas.”</p>
         <p id="p1972">Nymand stared as if he didn’t quite recognize her. She realized she was only wearing a T-shirt and panties, and she gratefully accepted one of the ambulance’s white blankets.</p>
         <p id="p1973">He closed his eyes a moment, seemingly to take in what had happened. “If you’re referring to the three persons you yourself assisted in having arrested last night, they’re still in Roskilde Jail. None of them has been released.”</p>
         <p id="p1974">Louise felt as if the earth were crumbling under her. “Jonas is gone,” she repeated. The lump in her throat stopped her from saying more.</p>
         <p id="p1975">Eik told Nymand about the empty bed and the stone that lay on the comforter.</p>
         <p id="p1976">“We need to get an overview of what’s happened out here,” Nymand said. He asked them to accompany him to the manager’s house; the ambulance had driven Frederik away, and Camilla and Markus were walking over there with two officers. Tønnesen still held his fire extinguisher, staring up at the black smoke disappearing into the sky.</p>
         <p id="p1977">“Does anyone have an idea of when the fire started?” Nymand asked.</p>
         <p id="p1978">“Jonas,” Louise said, not the least bit interested in theories about where or when the fire started. “We have to find Jonas. They took him in place of Sune!”</p>
         <p id="p1979">“The rescue personnel are still looking for him inside,” Nymand said, placing a hand on her arm, a gesture obviously meant to comfort her. “Ole Thomsen and his friends are in jail, so they couldn’t have taken him.”</p>
         <p id="p1980">He spoke to her as if she were a small child, which made Louise so angry that she almost hit him.</p>
         <p id="p1981">“Were there any witnesses to the fire breaking out?” Nymand continued, looking around at them.</p>
         <p id="p1982">They were in Tønnesen’s kitchen. Camilla sat on the bench along the wall, wrapped in the same type of white blanket that Louise had been given.</p>
         <p id="p1983">“Elinor came to warn us,” Camilla said, staring into space. “She wanted to save us. She’s the guardian angel of the place, talk to her.”</p>
         <p id="p1984">Louise looked down at the table.</p>
         <p id="p1985">“Elinor Jensen died half an hour ago,” said the officer sitting across from Camilla. He looked over at Nymand.</p>
         <p id="p1986">Markus cried quietly, his eyes closed and his head leaning back against the wall. One side of his face flickered a bit and the corner of his mouth trembled, as if he were trapped in a horrible nightmare.</p>
         <p id="p1987">“I got up about three thirty to shut my dog in the car,” Eik said. He’d taken a toothpick from Tønnesen’s table, and it flipped up and down in his mouth as he spoke. “He was barking, and I didn’t want him to wake everyone up.”</p>
         <p id="p1988">He was bare from the waist up but still wearing his jeans. He leaned awkwardly across the table, as if he couldn’t find the words to explain something. “That must’ve been when Elinor came upstairs. But there was no sign of smoke, and I didn’t see or hear anyone upstairs or out in the courtyard. I assumed it was some animal or a bird at the window that set him off, it was so quiet.”</p>
         <p id="p1989">His face was contorted with remorse. He shook his head and ran his fingers through his wispy hair, then stood up, walked to the sink, and threw his toothpick in the trash underneath. Louise noticed a cut on his back, shallow but long, as if he had unknowingly scraped it.</p>
         <p id="p1990">“So who took Jonas?” Louise leaned against the refrigerator. She was getting cold. Adrenaline kept her body alert, though her muscles trembled, her head thudded, and her eyeballs hurt. She felt dizzy.</p>
         <p id="p1991">“We don’t know that he’s been abducted,” Nymand said. “We can hope he’s not in the house. There were gasoline cans on the first floor; there’s no doubt it’s arson. It also explains the explosive manner in which the fire spread. But we can’t be one hundred percent sure of anything, and as I said, they’re still looking for him inside.”</p>
         <p id="p1992">Louise covered her mouth and whispered through her soot-blackened fingers. “You don’t understand!”</p>
         <p id="p1993">Nymand was about to say something, but Louise stopped him. “You don’t understand. Someone has started a war! They have Jonas, and every minute we sit here gives them that much more of a head start.”</p>
         <p id="p1994">Louise noticed Markus staring at her emptily, as if he weren’t really there. Her words, however, made him wince. <i>He’s about to go into shock</i>, she thought. She walked over to him. “No one blames you for not hearing anything.” She put her arm around his shoulders. They seemed so frail, even though he’d grown taller than her. “It will never be your fault that they took him.”</p>
         <p id="p1995">It stung Camilla when Louise implied that her son possibly could have prevented it, could have intervened, stopped someone from coming into the room under cover of night and abducted Jonas. Louise could see it in her friend’s eyes. But this was a cold-blooded act, well planned and with one objective, and even if Markus had gotten in the way, he could never have stopped them. And if he had, he might not have been sitting there on the bench, leaning his head on Louise’s shoulder.</p>
         <p id="p1996">“There was nothing you could have done,” she whispered into his hair. She squeezed his shoulder as he huddled against her.</p>
         <p id="p1997">Camilla began telling Nymand about the warden tree. “It’s said that your house will burn down if the tree is felled. And that happened this evening. Louise is right, someone has started a war against us. They carved a symbol for Ragnarok into the tree, and now Eik says that they left behind the rune for the Nordic god of war.”</p>
         <p id="p1998">“<i>Three</i> persons,” Louise exclaimed. She’d suddenly recalled what the deputy commissioner had said out in the courtyard. “What about the butcher? Didn’t you bring him in, too? He was there the night the prostitute was killed, and he’s been in the brotherhood right from the start. He’s part of it, even if they’ve turned against him!”</p>
         <p id="p1999">“We questioned Lars Frandsen after you talked to him. He’s agreed to make a full confession. But we didn’t bring him in. He’s still at the hospital. Damn it, Louise! His wife is dying. He’s not the one who was out here tonight. They brought a bed into the room for him. He has the right to be with his family—you have to respect that.”</p>
         <p id="p2000">“He doesn’t have the right to shit before we know where Jonas is!” Louise said. She jumped up and followed Eik, who was already out the door.</p>
      </section>
   </div>
</body>
</html>