<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8"/>
    <title/>
    <link href="css/9781455581535.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:994ca584-ac05-4eab-8400-c5fa92476f2d" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
  </head>
  <body>
   <div class="galley-rw">
      <section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="Chapter45">
         <div class="title-block-rw" id="title-block50">
            <p class="title-num-rw" id="title-num45"><a href="TOC.xhtml">45</a></p>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p2001"><span class="dropcap-rw">I</span> have a weekend bag with a change of clothing in the car. Take my jogging pants—you can tighten the waist.” Eik shut Charlie in the back of the car while Louise walked to the front steps. The fire squad’s lieutenant stopped her.</p>
         <p id="p2002">“I just need to get our shoes,” she explained. “They’re right inside.”</p>
         <p id="p2003">Quickly, she grabbed her own shoes and Eik’s pair of size forty-sixes, plus two pairs that she guessed belonged to Camilla and Markus.</p>
         <p id="p2004">It already smelled like a sodden, burned-out house. Water flowed across the dark gray marble floor in the hall, and soot ran down the walls visible above the stairs.</p>
         <p id="p2005">She felt empty inside when she returned to the car. Empty, yet seething with the knowledge that her past was boomeranging back on Jonas. She couldn’t handle her pain, her anxiety, the thought of his joyous smile as he’d walked with the girl and held her hand. What forces had been unleashed, who had taken him? She tried to reason it all out.</p>
         <p id="p2006">Perhaps abducting Jonas was an act of war against her, in retaliation for the arrests. Rape, murder, attempted murder: There were reasons enough to go to extremes to avoid these charges. But those who would be charged were already in jail. It made no sense.</p>
         <p id="p2007">Maybe they had taken Jonas as revenge for Camilla and Frederik helping Sune. But why Jonas and not Markus?</p>
         <p id="p2008">Could Bitten be involved? She was definitely capable of reactions wilder than anyone would suspect—Louise had seen that when she kicked Thomsen out of her life. But such a frail woman couldn’t carry a fifteen-year-old boy down a flight of stairs, certainly not without anyone hearing her; nor was she capable of setting fire to a house as successfully as had been done. And it wasn’t Louise who had arrested her husband, though his friends had tried to make it look that way.</p>
         <p id="p2009">“Can we come along?” Camilla said, interrupting her thoughts.</p>
         <p id="p2010">Behind her, Nymand objected to their leaving just when he had ordered them to stay.</p>
         <p id="p2011">Camilla put her arm around Markus, who still looked beaten up. “I want to be with Frederik. I won’t have my husband alone in the hospital while his childhood home burns down.”</p>
         <p id="p2012">“You two come with us,” Nymand said, pointing at Camilla and Louise. He had already gestured for one of his people to join them, a younger officer with a high forehead and muscles that strained at his shirt. Then he asked Eik if he could take Markus along in his car. “I need to know everything about Jonas,” he said to Louise. “Description, height…”</p>
         <p id="p2013">Louise was wearing Eik’s much-too-long jogging pants. She loosened the shoelaces on her sneakers to relieve her injured feet, then with Camilla walked past the felled tree to Nymand’s car down the driveway. Only a few tanker trucks remained now, in addition to a vehicle with a crane in back that was dragging the enormous tree off the driveway.</p>
         <p id="p2014">“He has dark hair,” Louise said. “A hundred eighty centimeters tall, normal build. He’s missing the little toe on his right foot…”</p>
         <p id="p2015">The words stuck in her throat, and she began to tremble. Camilla put her arm around her shoulder and took over. “He’s got dark eyes, prominent cheekbones. If you have Internet access on your phone, I can show you his photo on Facebook.”</p>
         <p id="p2016">“Does he have a phone?” Nymand asked.</p>
         <p id="p2017">“It won’t help much to track it if he left it in the bedroom.”</p>
         <p id="p2018">“Why didn’t we hear him yelling?” Louise asked. “He would do that. He would yell if someone tried to drag him away.”</p>
         <p id="p2019">They’d reached the end of the driveway. She looked out the window as they drove past the gatekeeper’s house and Kattingeværket, the old factory complex beside the lake. She answered herself. “Either he went along of his own free will, or else he was drugged.”</p>
         <div class="decoration-rw" id="decoration26">
            <p class="center-rw" id="p2020">*  *  *</p>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p2021">Louise didn’t even glance at the nurse trying to stop her from entering Sune’s room in intensive care. Eik and Nymand were right behind, and she turned to the deputy commissioner just before walking in. “I hope for your sake that Lars Frandsen is in there. Otherwise you’re responsible if anything happens to Jonas.”</p>
         <p id="p2022">Nymand reached out to put a hand on her arm, but Louise turned to open the door. She reminded herself that Jane and Sune were also inside.</p>
         <p id="p2023">The nurse caught up to them. “You can’t go in.” She tried to stand in the way, but Louise elbowed past her into the dim room. The curtain swished from the door being opened, and the butcher’s shoulder moved. He’d heard them.</p>
         <p id="p2024">He sat hunched over beside Jane’s bed. The air in the room seemed to stand still, even though the window was open. Sune lay over by the wall, staring at them with small, tired eyes.</p>
         <p id="p2025">Louise raised her hand to stop the others behind her. The nurse retreated when Eik explained that Louise was a close friend of Jane Frandsen.</p>
         <p id="p2026"><i>Used to be</i>, Louise thought. The door closed. “When did it happen?” she whispered.</p>
         <p id="p2027">“An hour ago.” He put his hand on the blanket. “I’m thankful that we were here. Her folks have stepped out for a minute.”</p>
         <p id="p2028">The nurse brought them coffee. Louise closed her eyes and thought about Jane. Young and full of life. It had been long ago, but they’d been a big part of each other’s lives. Silently she said farewell to her friend, waxy-pale now, her head on the white pillow, her eyes closed and lips slightly parted.</p>
         <p id="p2029">She couldn’t play rough; not here, not now. She still felt the rage, but the room was so quiet and peaceful. And besides, Sune lay there staring dismally at his mother.</p>
         <p id="p2030">“Excuse me. I’m sorry to interrupt, just when you’ve lost your wife.” She knelt down beside his chair. “My son Jonas has disappeared. He’s Sune’s age, and he disappeared last night. Lars, did you have anything to do with it?”</p>
         <p id="p2031">“Disappeared, how?” The butcher’s voice was monotone, weak. But his eyes flickered a bit when he turned to Louise.</p>
         <p id="p2032">“Who took my son? Thomsen and the others were arrested yesterday. René is in jail in Holbæk, and you’ve been here. Who has him?”</p>
         <p id="p2033">The butcher grimaced. Not from anger, Louise thought. It looked more like fear, as if something was out of control. She leaned back, frightened herself now.</p>
         <p id="p2034">“Last night, I tried to get hold of my father. I called him shortly before Jane died, but he didn’t pick up.” His shoulders sank, he looked spent. “I tried later, too, on my phone and also a phone here at the hospital, but he still didn’t answer.”</p>
         <p id="p2035">Louise realized that they were talking as if Jane weren’t beside them, as if Jane’s son weren’t staring at them. But they had no time to find a more private place, if what she feared was true. And she could see that the butcher understood.</p>
         <p id="p2036">“Talk to Roed Thomsen. If anyone’s after your boy, he’s the one who’s set it in motion.”</p>
         <p id="p2037">“Thomsen’s father?” She leaned forward to be sure that she’d heard right.</p>
         <p id="p2038">“He’s our gothi. If my father has been involved in anything last night, the gothi ordered him to do it. There’s never been a weak link in our fathers’ generation.”</p>
      </section>
   </div>
</body>
</html>