<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8"/>
    <title/>
    <link href="css/9781455581535.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:994ca584-ac05-4eab-8400-c5fa92476f2d" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
  </head>
  <body>
   <div class="galley-rw">
      <section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="Chapter46">
         <div class="title-block-rw" id="title-block51">
            <p class="title-num-rw" id="title-num46"><a href="TOC.xhtml">46</a></p>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p2039"><span class="dropcap-rw">A</span>n hour later, along with Nymand and the extra personnel assigned to him, they drove into the courtyard of Roed Thomsen’s beautiful country manor in Nørre Hvalsø. It faced open fields that stretched all the way to Såby. Tall beech trees surrounded the main house, and the grass had been cut in rows straight as an arrow, the edges trimmed perfectly.</p>
         <p id="p2040">“Is there a Mrs. Roed Thompson?” Eik asked, before they got out of the car.</p>
         <p id="p2041">He’d been quiet most of the way from Roskilde. Louise had sat with eyes closed, grateful that he hadn’t tried to break through her anxiety, which at the moment made breathing very difficult.</p>
         <p id="p2042">“There used to be a Mrs. Police Chief,” she answered. “But I don’t know if she’s still alive. After she quit working at the bank, you mostly saw her at the kiosk, buying aquavit. Asking to have it wrapped as a present. Now I understand why she preferred life to be blurred.”</p>
         <div class="decoration-rw" id="decoration27">
            <p class="center-rw" id="p2043">*  *  *</p>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p2044">Two officers stood by the front door as two more went around the house. Nymand knocked on the door and shouted, “Police!” He shook the doorknob a few times, as if he didn’t believe it was locked.</p>
         <p id="p2045">Louise and Eik were approaching the wing used as a barn when they heard a commotion from behind the house. Immediately she took off, with Eik on her heels.</p>
         <p id="p2046">She rounded the corner. A large, gaudy fountain spouted water up in the air. The two policemen stood beside a well-trimmed hedge, gazing at something on the ground between them.</p>
         <p id="p2047">Louise ran across the huge lawn. The men pulled a large tarp to the side and stumbled back at the sight of what lay under it. Eik passed Louise when she slowed down. She dragged herself the final few meters, and he tried to stop her.</p>
         <p id="p2048">“You don’t need to see this,” he said with a gentleness she had no need for. The men quickly replaced the tarp, but she jerked free, grabbed the green covering, and threw it aside. On the ground below lay a headless horse. Dark brown, a black mane, white markings above the hooves and on the chest.</p>
         <p id="p2049">She jumped back. Not so much from the sight of the dead horse, whose head she had seen stuck on the post at Camilla’s, but from relief that she wasn’t staring at the body of a boy.</p>
         <p id="p2050">“Do you recognize this?” Nymand asked as he walked across the lawn carrying a black T-shirt. He unfolded it and held it up with the logo facing her. A round face with a happy smile and big ears. She’d given it to Jonas. The American DJ deadmau5 had become his idol after he’d begun writing and sampling music, which he uploaded to YouTube.</p>
         <p id="p2051">For a moment everything stood still. Including her heart, Louise feared for a moment. But then her rage exploded from a place inside her she’d never felt before. Her fingertips turned cold, but the colors around her suddenly grew brighter, as if her senses were no longer deadened from anxiety.</p>
         <p id="p2052">If anyone had hurt one hair on Jonas’s head, they were as good as dead. She would kill them.</p>
      </section>
   </div>
</body>
</html>