<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8"/>
    <title/>
    <link href="css/9781455581535.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:994ca584-ac05-4eab-8400-c5fa92476f2d" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
  </head>
  <body>
   <div class="galley-rw">
      <section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="Chapter47">
         <div class="title-block-rw" id="title-block52">
            <p class="title-num-rw" id="title-num47"><a href="TOC.xhtml">47</a></p>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p2053"><span class="dropcap-rw">M</span>arkus was asleep on a chair by the window. The nurse had given Frederik pain medication, which made him drowsy. Camilla sat beside his bed. Adrenaline still coursed through her veins, her body on constant alert. She couldn’t fight off the image of the flames and Elinor’s frail, lifeless body lying in the courtyard.</p>
         <p id="p2054">She jumped at the sound of a voice from the doorway. “Excuse me,” said the nurse who had been keeping an eye on Frederik. “You have a call. The phone is in the office.”</p>
         <p id="p2055">Camilla got to her feet. She was chilly now. She had on the T-shirt she’d slept in, along with a dark-blue cardigan they’d dug up for her in the lost-and-found bin that patients regularly added to.</p>
         <p id="p2056">A redheaded nurse in the office pointed to the phone on the desk. Camilla picked it up. At first she didn’t recognize Louise’s voice; it sounded so bleak. “Who is this?” she asked, anxious at first, until she realized that whoever had taken Jonas and set fire to the house couldn’t know where she was. “Louise?”</p>
         <p id="p2057">“It’s about Jonas,” her friend said. “Go down to intensive care. Sune is in room six. Get hold of the butcher. You saved his son, now it’s time for him to return the favor.”</p>
         <p id="p2058">“Who took him?” she whispered. She looked at the nurse still standing in the doorway. “Where are you?”</p>
         <p id="p2059">“At Thomsen’s father’s house. The body of the dead horse is here. They’re not even trying to hide the fact they’re threatening you.”</p>
         <p id="p2060">“Unbelievable!” Camilla said, amazed and angered at the ruthlessness they were up against. “Tell me what to do.”</p>
         <p id="p2061">“We need to know places where they might have hidden him. He’s been here, now he’s gone of course.”</p>
         <p id="p2062">Camilla nodded and thought for a moment. “Could they have taken him out to the sacrificial oak? Has anyone been out there?”</p>
         <p id="p2063">“That’s the first place Nymand checked. No one there. Not at the girls’ graves, either. Find out if there are other places connected to their religion. Areas with a special meaning for their rituals.”</p>
         <p id="p2064">“Got it. You want to know everything.”</p>
         <p id="p2065">“Yes.”</p>
         <div class="decoration-rw" id="decoration28">
            <p class="center-rw" id="p2066">*  *  *</p>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p2067">The door to intensive care swooshed as it closed behind Camilla. She hurried down the hall, passing rooms 2, 4, 6. She knocked gently before pushing the door open and stepping in. The room was empty. There were no beds or people inside, only two night tables pushed up against the wall.</p>
         <p id="p2068">“Yes?” Camilla turned to find a nurse wearing an open white coat looking at her.</p>
         <p id="p2069">“Lars Frandsen and Sune,” she stammered. “I’m a friend of the family. We’ve just recently been in touch.”</p>
         <p id="p2070">The nurse sized her up. Camilla remembered that she still stank from the smoke. She must look like something the cat dragged in. Which might have been the reason why the nurse took her elbow and led her down the hall. She probably looked like she’d dropped everything to rush to the hospital.</p>
         <p id="p2071">“My condolences,” the nurse said. She led her to a door in the same hall. “They’re in here.”</p>
         <p id="p2072">Uneasy now, Camilla knocked. Four pale, red-eyed faces turned to her. “Excuse me,” she said, before anyone could speak. “Lars, I need to talk to you.”</p>
         <p id="p2073">He stared at her as if he were about to refuse, but then he stood up. An elderly woman clutching a white handkerchief in her hands was sobbing. Sune sat beside her, pale and unfocused, but when he looked up he recognized her. His expression changed, and he seemed about to say something when Camilla hurried out into the hall with his father.</p>
         <p id="p2074">“Where have they taken Jonas?” she asked after she’d introduced herself.</p>
         <p id="p2075">The butcher’s face went blank. “My wife just died!”</p>
         <p id="p2076">“I know, and I’m very sorry, but this is a matter of life and death.”</p>
         <p id="p2077">“I don’t know what you’re talking about.” He turned around to walk back into the room, but she grabbed him.</p>
         <p id="p2078">“I’m the one who found your son!” She was in his face now. “Tell me where they could’ve taken Jonas.”</p>
         <p id="p2079">She shook him. She was so angry that she didn’t even think about how strong he was. “Our house is burning down. Goddamn it, we could all have died. And now Louise’s son has disappeared.”</p>
         <p id="p2080">She kept shaking him. “Where could they have taken him? Come on, talk to me!”</p>
         <p id="p2081">Suddenly he seemed very interested. “Who burned your house down?”</p>
         <p id="p2082">“Good question, because I have no fucking idea!” Camilla let go of him and backed off a bit, her arms falling to her sides. “Someone started it while we were asleep. The only person who might have seen something is Elinor, the old lady who found Sune and dragged me out in the forest. But she died of smoke inhalation.”</p>
         <p id="p2083">Now, having said the words, she made the connection: Elinor was dead because she had tried to warn them. That the wagons were again rolling on the Death Trail, that someone in the summer night had snuck up to the manor house. And it saddened her.</p>
         <p id="p2084">They must’ve come in from the forest, she thought. They had surveillance cameras along the driveway. If they had been activated during the night, Tønnesen would have been aware of it.</p>
         <p id="p2085">“What do they want? What have we done? This has to stop; these are children they’re hurting.”</p>
         <p id="p2086">Her voice faded at the end, along with her anger. But she had to make him cooperate.</p>
         <p id="p2087">The butcher lowered his eyes for a moment before again meeting hers. “They’ve turned on you because you helped my son. You should never have done that. You interfered in something that should have been taken care of within the brotherhood.”</p>
         <p id="p2088">“What the hell are you talking about? You know how frightened that boy was when we were out in the forest with him. Of course we had to help!”</p>
         <p id="p2089">She grabbed his arm. “You of all people know what they’re capable of. Tell me what they might do with Louise’s son; you owe me.”</p>
         <p id="p2090">He looked at her as if she’d just slapped him. “Blood vengeance. When one of us has been wronged, there has to be revenge.”</p>
         <p id="p2091">“Why him? Why Jonas?”</p>
         <p id="p2092">“Your friend was the one who had him arrested yesterday. Bitten told me when she called to ask about Jane. In a way, she was asking for it.”</p>
         <p id="p2093">“What the hell is it with you? Ingersminde has burned down, Jonas been kidnapped—are you all crazy or what?” One moment he was Sune’s father, a man who’d just lost his wife, and the next he was part of Thomsen’s brotherhood, for whom revenge was normal, as it had been back in the times of the Asatro. “This has to stop, and you have to help me. There’s no one else I can turn to.”</p>
         <p id="p2094">Silence. A cart farther down the hall clattered against something, a door closed.</p>
         <p id="p2095">“I’m sorry,” he said, shaking his head. “I don’t know what to say.”</p>
         <p id="p2096">Camilla breathed in deeply several times, until she had composed herself completely. “Tell me where you think they might have taken Jonas,” she implored. “They found his T-shirt at Ole Thomsen’s father’s place, but he wasn’t there. Where can he be? Think about it. Think about Sune being sacrificed, almost bleeding to death. You owe them nothing! For God’s sake, they wanted to kill your son!”</p>
         <p id="p2097">The butcher made a fist, pressed it against his mouth, then closed his eyes, as if he were forcing his mind to play along. “They could have taken him to Avn Lake or to Blood Springs. Maybe to the hillside at Gyldenløvshøj?”</p>
         <p id="p2098">Camilla pressed him. “Which is most likely? Are there rituals connected with these places?”</p>
         <p id="p2099">“Hell’s Cauldron,” he mumbled, looking away from her now. “That’s another place we make sacrifices to the gods. But it’s best known for human sacrifices. Back in the days of the Asatro the farmers met every ninth year, and according to myth they sacrificed ninety-nine men, ninety-nine horses, ninety-nine dogs, and ninety-nine hawks. The sacrifices were made to the goddess of death, Hel, Loke’s daughter. She reigns over the kingdom of death.”</p>
         <p id="p2100">His voice sounded mechanical; he was going to pieces right before her eyes. He leaned against the wall and sank to the floor.</p>
         <p id="p2101">Camilla froze up inside. “Human sacrifices,” she repeated. She shook her head. “Can I borrow your phone?”</p>
      </section>
   </div>
</body>
</html>