<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8"/>
    <title/>
    <link href="css/9781455581535.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:994ca584-ac05-4eab-8400-c5fa92476f2d" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
  </head>
  <body>
   <div class="galley-rw">
      <section class="body-rw Chapter-rw short-hbg" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="Chapter48">
         <div class="title-block-rw" id="title-block53">
            <p class="title-num-rw" id="title-num48"><a href="TOC.xhtml">48</a></p>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p2102"><span class="dropcap-rw">N</span>ot here, either!” Louise shouted. She hopped off the attic ladder. They had searched the wings of the house, barns, and the enormous attic over the country manor. Police were combing the main residence, and two dog patrols had arrived, but Louise was certain that Jonas was nowhere around.</p>
         <p id="p2103">He had been there. His pajamas had been found piled up on the kitchen floor. Again, there had been no attempt to hide anything. Pajamas, T-shirt, not even the white plastic bottle of animal tranquilizer. Cotton, nylon rope, and rags lay on the kitchen counter, and the blood on the kitchen floor had coagulated, though when she touched it her finger showed a slight stain. Had an hour gone by, an hour and a half?</p>
         <p id="p2104">She heard the police dogs returning from the fields behind them, being led to the other side of the main residence.</p>
         <p id="p2105">She stared into space. It was as if the world had stopped, in the same way she had begun shutting down inside. Her temples throbbed, her scalp tingled. She put her hands on her knees and let her head hang loose with her eyes closed, waiting for the blood to reach her brain. She knew she wouldn’t get one step closer to Jonas without getting herself under control.</p>
         <p id="p2106">Someone put a hand on her arm just as she was about to straighten up. She stared into Eik’s solemn face, and suddenly all the strength she’d tried to muster disappeared, replaced by tears.</p>
         <p id="p2107">“Hell’s Cauldron, where is it?” He led her away as he explained that he’d just heard from Camilla. He carried Jonas’s striped pajama bottoms.</p>
         <p id="p2108">Louise went blank. What was he talking about? Then her brain slowly began working. “It’s close to Ravnsholte.” <i>Why does he want to know?</i> she wondered.</p>
         <p id="p2109">He pushed her gently. “Let’s go. I’ve already told Nymand.”</p>
         <p id="p2110">Louise trotted to the car. Ravnsholte was in the forest on the other side of Hvalsø, where her parents lived.</p>
         <p id="p2111">Charlie whined in the back of the car, his snout against the window, ears pointing forward. He was following the other dogs so intently that he didn’t turn when Louise and Eik got into the car.</p>
         <p id="p2112">“That’s enough,” Eik said, as he made his way among the growing number of police cars.</p>
         <p id="p2113">“Hell’s Cauldron,” he repeated, when they’d reached the highway. “Can you find it?”</p>
         <p id="p2114">“Drive through Hvalsø and out to Lerbjerg,” she said as she tried to remember how to get there. “I can find it if we enter the forest where I used to ride.”</p>
         <p id="p2115">Her mind was in turmoil as they drove the six kilometers from Nørre Hvalsø to where she grew up. She couldn’t shake the image of Jonas. She imagined him being woken up in the dark, drugged, and pulled from his bed.</p>
         <p id="p2116">She tried to sort everything out. The old police chief had taken Jonas to punish her; that much she knew. Now, however, she was beginning to understand how he had misused his position to protect his son and his son’s friends.</p>
         <p id="p2117">She thought about the janitor from Såby. About Gudrun, Klaus, and the young prostitute. Each time he covered up for them, he was actually saving his own ass. They had something on <i>him</i>.</p>
         <p id="p2118">Roed Thomsen was a weak man who had been unable to deal with his own sick daughter. Instead he’d let everything get out of hand when she died. And since then he had done all he could to maintain the facade.</p>
         <p id="p2119">“The old police chief has always known what’s gone on,” she said, giving voice to her thoughts. “But he never stepped in because he was afraid of being found out. Everyone’s got something on everyone else, and that makes them deadly.”</p>
         <p id="p2120">“Roed Thomsen was their gothi,” Eik said a moment later. “Asatro was his way of ensuring he wouldn’t be alone if someone turned against him.”</p>
         <p id="p2121">“And the worst thing is, they’re convinced their beliefs give them the right to do what they’re doing,” Louise said.</p>
         <p id="p2122">They reached the forest and drove past the parking lot and down the hill, where she told him to turn right. “I’m not sure we can drive all the way in.”</p>
         <p id="p2123">She straightened up when they passed the Snipe House and saw Verner Post standing by his woodpile. “Stop!”</p>
         <p id="p2124">She waved. The old man had always lived there. Several of his upper teeth were missing, and the ones left were stained from the ever-present wad of tobacco he kept inside his upper lip. He’d been born in the Snipe House and had taken possession of both it and his job in Bistrup Forest from his father, who had been killed when a tree kicked out wrong. Louise knew this only because Verner Post had helped his father several times when a tree needed felling.</p>
         <p id="p2125">“We’re going to Hell’s Cauldron. How close can we get there by car?” She felt strangely calm. She didn’t really believe Jonas was there; she was sure she’d have sensed his fear or the men’s anger if they were so close.</p>
         <p id="p2126">She stiffened, however, when she saw the expression on the old man’s face. “I just sent another car in there. Why’s everybody all of a sudden interested in the old sacrificial grounds?”</p>
         <p id="p2127">“Sacrificial grounds? Who did you send in?” Her nerves exploded. She felt like grabbing on to him, but she held herself back. Roed Thomsen wouldn’t need directions; he had to know the forest at least as well as she did.</p>
         <p id="p2128">“The butcher, the young one. He looked like he just seen a ghost. He ought to know the way, often as they come out here. We always have to clean up their mess. But he was all in a tizzy.”</p>
         <p id="p2129">He moved the chaw of tobacco around with his lower lip.</p>
         <p id="p2130">“Was there anyone else in the car with him?” Eik said.</p>
         <p id="p2131">Verner Post shook his head. “He’s the only one I saw.” He turned his head and spat.</p>
         <div class="decoration-rw" id="decoration29">
            <p class="center-rw" id="p2132">*  *  *</p>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p2133">“Stop!” Louise pointed at the trees, and Eik parked the car. There were no other vehicles around, and the forest was quiet. Sweat broke out on Louise’s forehead as she headed for the hillside farther along in the forest.</p>
         <p id="p2134">Eik held the striped pajamas and let Charlie out of the back. He followed after Louise. She stopped regularly to listen. “We’re wasting our time,” she said when Eik caught up to her.</p>
         <p id="p2135">Charlie raced around with his nose to the ground. He didn’t seem especially interested in the pajamas Eik kept showing him.</p>
         <p id="p2136">“They’re not here,” Louise kept saying. “We’d be hearing something.”</p>
         <p id="p2137">Eik turned to her and grabbed her shoulders, forced her to look at him. “Stop it!” he said as if he were trying to talk sense into a child. “If we’re going to find Jonas, you have to start acting like a policewoman instead of a mother.”</p>
         <p id="p2138">He grabbed her hand and pulled her to the top of the hillside, not letting go until they were looking down into Hell’s Cauldron, which was covered with the final crop of autumn’s fallen leaves. She remembered the hollow as being deeper. Probably because she had been smaller back then, she thought.</p>
         <p id="p2139">Relief or anxiety, she wasn’t sure which, rushed through her body when she saw that Jonas wasn’t there.</p>
      </section>
   </div>
</body>
</html>