<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8"/>
    <title/>
    <link href="css/9781455581535.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:994ca584-ac05-4eab-8400-c5fa92476f2d" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
  </head>
  <body>
   <div class="galley-rw">
      <section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="Chapter50">
         <div class="title-block-rw" id="title-block55">
            <p class="title-num-rw" id="title-num50"><a href="TOC.xhtml">50</a></p>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p2193"><span class="dropcap-rw">T</span>he tones from the organ and the first hymn they’d sung died out, leaving the tiny chapel silent. Lissy’s chair clattered when she stood up and walked to the coffin, holding a folded sheet of paper.</p>
         <p id="p2194">Louise squeezed Eik’s hand and glanced at Jonas, who sat on her other side.</p>
         <p id="p2195">They had both offered without a moment’s hesitation to accompany her to the memorial ceremony Klaus’s parents wanted to hold, immediately after the police had released his remains. At first she had said no; she had to go by herself. But as they packed Eik’s clothes and toilet bag—he was going to stay with her while Camilla, Frederik, and Markus borrowed his small apartment in Sydhavnen—it somehow began to feel right for them to be with her. Eik, and Jonas, too.</p>
         <p id="p2196">“You shouldn’t do this alone,” he’d said, when she told him that she hadn’t attended the service back when Klaus was buried.</p>
         <p id="p2197">Lissy began speaking. She told of the many years of doubt that had finally ended. About the peace in her soul, long overdue.</p>
         <p id="p2198">Her words echoed in the upper reaches of the chapel. Ernst sat on the other side of the coffin, together with his daughter and son-in-law and their little Jonathan. Several of Klaus’s aunts and uncles she’d never met sat alongside them. And that was it.</p>
         <p id="p2199">“It will be a small, private ceremony,” Lissy had said when she called. “A farewell.”</p>
         <p id="p2200">Lunch would be served afterward at their home on Skovvej, but Louise had politely declined.</p>
         <p id="p2201">For her, it all ended right here.</p>
      </section>
   </div>
</body>
</html>