<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8"/>
    <title/>
    <link href="css/9781455541072.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:aacd282c-ae7f-4553-9a8d-20a2740bb32e" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
  </head>
  <body>
   <div class="galley-rw">
      <section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="Chapter2">
         <div class="title-block-rw" id="title-block7">
            <p class="title-num-rw" id="title-num2"><a href="TOC.xhtml">1</a></p>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p36"><span class="dropcap-rw">L</span>ouise Rick leaned back in her chair in the Search Department office and eyed her partner, who sat on the floor attending to Charlie. The retired police dog lay on his side, patiently allowing his paws to be cleaned of snow and road salt. Eik Nordstrøm rubbed him with a towel; he clipped the hairs between the pads of his paws and smeared them with Vaseline, praising the dog constantly until Louise at last rolled her eyes and shook her head.</p>
         <p id="p37">A book about dog care lay on Eik’s desk.</p>
         <p id="p38"><i>Whoa</i>, she thought. She hardly believed that a little snow on the street required this level of grooming. Never had she cleaned Dina’s paws of road salt or smeared them with Vaseline. If anyone had, it was Jonas. After all, her foster son was the one who’d loaned the book to Eik.</p>
         <p id="p39">Watching the tender way the black-haired policeman nursed the big German shepherd, she had the realization that if he moved out of her apartment now, she would miss him terribly.</p>
         <p id="p40">He scooted over and grabbed Charlie’s back paw.</p>
         <p id="p41">Six months ago, Louise had been anxious about how it would go when her relatively new love—her partner, Eik—moved in with Jonas and her, while Louise’s friend Camilla stayed in Eik’s studio apartment in South Harbor with her husband, Frederik, and son, Markus. But it had worked out fine. So fine, in fact, that the thought of him moving back to his own apartment now felt all wrong.</p>
         <p id="p42">Eik had come up with the idea that Camilla and Frederik stay at his place. They’d needed somewhere to live after their manor house near Roskilde had burned down. Markus had left for boarding school along with Jonas, so even though the place was small, it felt crowded only when he was home on weekends.</p>
         <p id="p43">Louise suspected that Camilla and Frederik had actually grown tired of the manor house, with its high wainscoting and beautiful stucco ceilings, and wanted to move back to the city, though living in a five-hundred-square-foot space when they were used to ten thousand square feet had to be quite an adjustment. When Frederik left the hospital after the fire, he had made it clear that he wasn’t going to rebuild his childhood home. Louise understood why. Too much bad karma, too many strange old stories clung to the property, making escaping the past while living there very difficult.</p>
         <p id="p44">But now they were moving on. They had just taken possession of a roomy penthouse in Frederiksberg, a few blocks from where Camilla and Markus lived before she met Frederik. The past six months had gone by so fast, however, that Louise and Eik hadn’t really talked about what they would do once his apartment was free again.</p>
         <p id="p45">“I wonder what such an uptown dog will think about moving back to South Harbor,” she said, teasing him now.</p>
         <p id="p46">“Yeah, the neighborhood probably isn’t his cup of tea.” Eik spoke without looking up, while working on the last paw. “You know how Charlie loves sniffing the fancy ladies on Allégade. Plus, there’re all his girlfriends in Frederiksberg Gardens.”</p>
         <p id="p47">“Maybe,” Louise said. Eik got to his feet and tossed a treat to his now clean dog. “But Frederik and Camilla moved yesterday. And let me see…if I remember correctly, the deal was that you were only going to stay with me until they found another place.”</p>
         <p id="p48">Eik was caught off guard for a moment, but then he smiled. “Oh, didn’t I tell you that Olle is coming by with his station wagon this afternoon to pick my things up?” He looked down at the big German shepherd. “And really, a dog needs to learn how to run around all sorts of places.”</p>
         <p id="p49">He said this so offhandedly that Louise had to lower her eyes. Suddenly she went quiet inside. She didn’t want him to leave; living with Eik felt so natural, so secure.</p>
         <p id="p50">“Hey!” He walked over and kissed her on the neck. “I’m not going anywhere. We just need to decide if we should keep the South Harbor apartment. Who knows? Maybe Jonas will want it someday, or maybe we should just get rid of it. But it’s so cheap to hang on to.”</p>
         <p id="p51">The knot inside Louise loosened. He swiveled her chair around to him, and she stood and held him tightly. Losing him for a second, only to get him back, made her cling even harder as he pulled her blouse up. She breathed him in, the smell of leather, cigarettes, hair wax, and something indefinable yet unmistakable, an odor that was his and his only. She ran her hands down through his longish black hair, kissing him back.</p>
         <p id="p52">Neither of them reacted in time when the door behind them opened. Rønholt stood in the doorway, mumbled an embarrassed apology, then stepped back and closed the door. He pounded on the door three times and cleared his throat before walking back in. “Would you be so kind as to step into my office?” As he turned to leave, he added, “Properly clothed, please.”</p>
         <p id="p53">Ragner Rønholt had been the head of the Search Department for more than two decades. A year ago, he had snatched Louise away from Homicide. He was steadily approaching retirement age. No one knew when he planned to step down, but it was becoming clear he was looking forward to the third stage of life, with a lot of cultural travel and bicycle vacations around Europe. Louise had only a sketchy knowledge of his private life. She knew he wasn’t married, though he split his time between two steady woman friends. He invited Pytte to concerts in Denmark Radio’s new concert hall, and took her on vacations to major cities, while Didder thrived in the kitchen of her home in Skodsborg, where he played the role of handyman. He lived in a large apartment on Østbanegade, a street in an exclusive part of Copenhagen, and grew orchids on his windowsills.</p>
         <p id="p54">The head of Homicide, Hans Suhr, had once called him a lone wolf and bon vivant, a man who had tailored his life to fit his desires. The Search Department director didn’t spend his days making concessions to others. He did the things he wanted to, when he wanted to.</p>
         <p id="p55">“This can’t go on. But then you’re both aware of that, aren’t you?”</p>
         <p id="p56">Louise and Eik sat in his office. On the wall behind the door hung three newly pressed white shirts wrapped in plastic from a dry cleaner on Vesterbrogade, and below them lay a pair of bicycle shoes Rønholt changed into before riding home on his new road bike. Standard equipment for a man approaching retirement. Though Louise had never seen him wearing a jersey from one of the teams in the Tour de France. Or cycling tights.</p>
         <p id="p57">“Everyone knows you’re living together. We have to face the fact that one of you is going to have to transfer.”</p>
         <p id="p58">Silence.</p>
         <p id="p59">“For now, let’s just keep our eyes and ears open.” He reached for a paper on his desk. “There’s a position at the police station in Næstved, for example.”</p>
         <p id="p60">He pushed the paper over to them. “I’m willing to listen to suggestions about how else we can solve this problem. Which one of you is open to trying something new?”</p>
         <p id="p61">Again, neither of them spoke. Louise stood up and grabbed the paper, promising they would find a solution.</p>
         <p id="p62">“He’s right, you know,” she said on the way back to the office. “We can’t be partners if we plan to keep living together. But Næstved? No way!”</p>
         <p id="p63">“You know Rønholt, it’ll blow over.” Eik put his arm around her. “We’re a good team, and if people start talking, I’ll just go back to my old office.”</p>
         <p id="p64">Louise raised her hand. “No. It’s no different for us than for anybody else here. We can’t be out there together.”</p>
         <p id="p65">“All right, I surrender. We’ll find a way.” He closed the door to their office and patted Charlie. “You looking forward to tonight?”</p>
         <p id="p66">Louise smiled. “Nick Cave is more your cup of tea, but it’s been a long time since I’ve been to a concert. I can’t wait! I talked to Camilla and Frederik. They’ll meet us in front of Vega a half hour before it starts, so we can grab a beer. Do you have the tickets?”</p>
         <p id="p67">Eik lifted an eyebrow and stared at her. She got the drift; she was being too motherly. “Everything’s under control” was all he said, and then switched on his computer.</p>
         <p id="p68">For a moment, she was flustered. They hadn’t yet sanded off all their rough edges, and she knew this type of thing would happen now and then as they settled into a life together. It was still mostly one long party for them, and she loved waking up beside him every morning and falling asleep with him every night. But a few times she had caught herself picking his black jeans up off the floor and laying them on a chair, and now she had run into one of his borders. <i>Got it</i>, she thought, as she focused again on the job opening.</p>
         <p id="p69">“One of us will end up working outside of town if we don’t start asking around,” she said. “And since I’m the last one in, it’s only fair that I’m the one who leaves.”</p>
         <p id="p70">Eik was standing now, pulling the dog leash from his coat pocket. “We’ll see.” It still didn’t sound as if he were taking this seriously. “I’m going to run down for a pack of smokes and walk the dog. Come on, Charlie.”</p>
         <p id="p71">She heard him whistling down the hallway. Most likely Nick Cave, though she didn’t recognize the song.</p>
      </section>
   </div>
</body>
</html>