<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8"/>
    <title/>
    <link href="css/9781455541072.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:aacd282c-ae7f-4553-9a8d-20a2740bb32e" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
  </head>
  <body>
   <div class="galley-rw">
      <section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="Chapter3">
         <div class="title-block-rw" id="title-block8">
            <p class="title-num-rw" id="title-num3"><a href="TOC.xhtml">2</a></p>
            <p class="dateline-rw" id="dateline1">February 1996</p>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p72"><span class="dropcap-rw">T</span>he voices had died down in the confirmation room. The teenagers sat still, listening to the priest talk about death being a natural part of life, about how God didn’t always let us know it was coming. Her husband excelled at getting restless adolescents to listen. Sofie had never quite figured out why. Maybe it was because they found what he said interesting. Or maybe the boys respected his success as coach of the sports club’s handball team, and they wanted to be on his good side now that it was moving up into a higher league before the tournament.</p>
         <p id="p73">Stig had been on the junior national team before he became a priest and moved to town, and after he began coaching, she ran a concession stand at the arena. Thinking about it now, she smiled as she grabbed a pencil from the table, lifted her hair up into a bun, and stuck the pencil in. She arranged butter, thin wafers of chocolate, and sliced cheese on a platter, and filled a bread basket with freshly baked rolls.</p>
         <p id="p74">“Okay, fresh bread right out of the oven,” she said, interrupting their confirmation studies as she entered the room. Stig smiled and waved her in. “There’s juice, and tea, too. The paper cups are in the cupboard.”</p>
         <p id="p75">Refreshments were always served at the parsonage. She and Stig had discussed whether it might be seen as a type of bribery, but in the end, they’d decided they wanted visitors to feel welcome there, and besides, preparations for confirmation weren’t meant to be a punishment. The afternoon class got a sandwich or a dessert, while the early class was served breakfast.</p>
         <p id="p76">While the teenagers ate, Sofie listened as a girl asked Stig if he believed in life after death. He answered that there was no way to stop life from ending. But no, he found no solace in the belief that a new life awaited on the other side. He took comfort in knowing that when the time came and God called you, it was because you were ready to leave this life. Even when death seemed unmerciful and abrupt. He believed the only thing waiting on the other side was heaven’s peace.</p>
         <p id="p77">“And only God knows when the time is right for each person,” he said, when Sofie had emptied the bread basket.</p>
         <p id="p78">The phone in the kitchen rang. Sofie smiled at Stig, closed the door behind her, and answered.</p>
         <p id="p79">“Your mother won’t drink the protein drink I leave for her,” her mother’s home care aide jumped right in. “It’s not good, not at all. She’ll get even weaker and start aspirating again, and she’ll end up back in the hospital. You have to talk to her!”</p>
         <p id="p80">“I’ll come over right now,” Sofie said. She turned off the oven and wet the dishtowel covering the rolls that were rising.</p>
         <p id="p81">She was about to dig her boots out from under the mountain of teenage shoes when she noticed the open gun case. Which made her so mad, she could scream! Stig seldom irritated her, but this thoughtlessness, forgetting to lock up his hunting guns when the house was full of kids, was so typical of him.</p>
         <p id="p82">“Will you please come out here and lock your muskets up,” she yelled to him through the door. Several of the boys snickered; she’d done this before, and it was always good for a laugh.</p>
         <p id="p83">Not much was left of her mother. Less than a week ago, she had been released from the hospital after a serious case of pneumonia. Her white blood cell count had been sky high, and the infection had spread to her blood. Now she sat on the sofa with a blanket over her and a thick book on her lap. Was she reading the book, or did it simply give her a sense of dignity? Sofie had once caught her mother sitting with a book turned upside down.</p>
         <p id="p84">She was sixty-seven, but after being diagnosed with multiple sclerosis, she had gone downhill fast. Suddenly, she was an old woman. She also had arthritis in her hands, shoulders, and back. Sofie knew the pain was worse than her mother let on, and she couldn’t hide her exhaustion. The once-energetic woman had disappeared. She still cleaned her small apartment above the flower shop, but it was a far cry from back when she had kept her large house, mowed the acre of lawn, and washed the windows before driving down to shop—without anyone thinking a thing about it. It was as if the energy had seeped out of her.</p>
         <p id="p85">“Ohhh, it is so irritating being old; I’m no good at it,” she often said. Her mother was now at the point where the day was a success if she had the energy to get out of bed and drink a cup of morning coffee while reading the newspaper.</p>
         <p id="p86">It was okay to be a slow starter, as Sofie put it. “There’s nothing you absolutely have to do. It’s okay to slow down,” she said, when her mother felt terrible about being old and unable to do anything.</p>
         <p id="p87">She kissed her mother on the cheek. “Mom, you have to sip on the protein drink, otherwise they’ll stick you back in the hospital.”</p>
         <p id="p88">Her mother’s steely blue eyes had softened over the past year. “Oh, Sof. I don’t want to go on. You have to understand, my time has come, my strength is gone.”</p>
         <p id="p89">“Let’s not get into that now, Mom.” Sofie walked out into the kitchen for the protein drink. “I don’t want to lose you.”</p>
         <p id="p90">Sofie sat down beside her mother on the sofa. “And I’m not leaving before you drink this. Then I’ll go down to the pharmacy and pick up your medication. What do you need from the store?”</p>
         <p id="p91">Her mother laid her hand on Sofie’s arm. “Honey…you said it yourself, can’t you hear? I can’t even walk down the street anymore.”</p>
         <p id="p92">“It’s only for the time being. You just got home. Being in the hospital is exhausting.”</p>
         <p id="p93">“No. This is my life now.” Her mother let her hand fall. “I’m not myself anymore.”</p>
         <p id="p94">Sofie couldn’t hold back her tears. They’d had this talk many times, but it had never felt so serious, so close.</p>
         <p id="p95">Her mother had made it clear that she wanted an out when she lost the will to live. They’d talked about it even before Sofie’s father died. In fact, Sofie had feared her mother would take her own life if her father went first. But it hadn’t happened; she hadn’t even spoken of it back then, though it was obvious how terribly she missed him.</p>
         <p id="p96">A year after his death, Sofie had invited her mother out, and for an entire evening they had talked about the right to choose when someone no longer wants to go on.</p>
         <p id="p97">“Of course it’s not something to be taken lightly,” her mother had said, to calm her daughter’s fears. “But life can take you to a place you don’t want to be, and that’s when I want to be allowed to end it. I promise you, though, I’ll hang on as long as I can.”</p>
         <p id="p98">Now Sofie stroked her mother’s hand before walking into the bathroom to get a grip on herself. To stop her tears. She leaned over the sink for a moment, then blew her nose, took a deep breath, and returned to the living room. “But it doesn’t have to be now,” she said, after sitting back down. “Wouldn’t you like to see spring?”</p>
         <p id="p99">Her mother reached again for Sofie’s hand. “My strength is gone.”</p>
         <p id="p100">“But do you even know how much medicine you need to take your own life?” Sofie blurted out. She squeezed her mother’s hand. “I will not come here and find you in a pool of blood, and don’t try anything with the gas oven in the kitchen. It could be dangerous for everyone else in the building.”</p>
         <p id="p101">They sat for a moment in silence.</p>
         <p id="p102">“And what am I supposed to do with myself while you’re lying here dying? Do you want me to sit here with you? Or should I just pace around at home, knowing what is happening? I just don’t know if I can do that.”</p>
         <p id="p103">Her mother shook her head quietly. “Let’s not talk about it anymore.” She picked up the carton of protein drink Sofie had placed in front of her.</p>
         <p id="p104">“I understand you, and I don’t want to be egotistical,” Sofie said a while later. She held her mother’s hand again. “I want to set you free. I just love you so much, and I can’t even express how much I’m going to miss you.”</p>
         <p id="p105">“I love you, too.” Her mother set down the empty carton.</p>
      </section>
   </div>
</body>
</html>