<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8"/>
    <title/>
    <link href="css/9781455541072.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:aacd282c-ae7f-4553-9a8d-20a2740bb32e" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
  </head>
  <body>
   <div class="galley-rw">
      <section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="Chapter5">
         <div class="title-block-rw" id="title-block10">
            <p class="title-num-rw" id="title-num5"><a href="TOC.xhtml">4</a></p>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p139"><span class="dropcap-rw">C</span>amilla waved from a distance. Frederik walked over from the parking ticket machine with his scarf pulled up to his nose. He’d been living in California before he met Camilla, and he never missed an opportunity to say the temperature over there was more his style.</p>
         <p id="p140">“Do we have time for a beer before going in?” Camilla asked. She looked around. “Where’s Eik?”</p>
         <p id="p141">Frederik held the door open and herded them inside, where it was warm.</p>
         <p id="p142">“He’s coming,” Louise said. “He’s got the tickets.”</p>
         <p id="p143">She and Camilla sat down at a table. “How’s it feel being back at <i>Morgenavisen</i>?” Louise asked.</p>
         <p id="p144">Frederik bought two beers for them and a cola for himself, then he sat down and put his arm around his wife.</p>
         <p id="p145">“It would be a whole lot better if I weren’t on the editorial staff. My most important job is correcting commas and typos in everyone else’s articles.” Camilla smiled. “But it’s good to be back, and Terkel Høyer <i>says </i>he missed me.”</p>
         <p id="p146">Several years ago, Camilla had been a crime reporter at the paper, a job she had resigned from. Louise wasn’t sure how big a letdown the editorial position was. Some might call it a promotion, Camilla had explained, when she was offered the job, but it wasn’t hard to hear her disappointment. She wanted to write and have her name on the byline.</p>
         <p id="p147">Frederik laughed. “I’m probably the one who’s making the biggest adjustment, now that I have a working wife. I’m home more than she is.”</p>
         <p id="p148">He turned away when his phone rang. Louise and Camilla listened in, curious as to whether it was Eik, but Frederik began speaking in English.</p>
         <p id="p149">“It’s his agent,” Camilla said. “HBO wants Frederik to be the head writer for a hot new series. They’re negotiating the terms.”</p>
         <p id="p150">“Is he going to move over there again?” Louise asked. “You’ve just fixed up the apartment.”</p>
         <p id="p151">Her friend shook her head. “He can write from over here, and they can Skype.”</p>
         <p id="p152">Frederik seemed more relaxed now that he had stepped down as director of his family’s business, Termo-Lux, and declared that his businessman days were over. From now on, he would stick to screenwriting. While living in Santa Barbara, he had helped write for several major Hollywood productions, but he’d left all that behind when he moved back to Denmark. Which had definitely been the wrong move career-wise, judging from the sparkle in his eye now.</p>
         <p id="p153">“The concert’s about to start,” Camilla said. She downed her beer.</p>
         <p id="p154">Louise walked over to the window to check the line. It was thinning out. Eik had been one of the first to buy tickets online for the small-venue performance. He wouldn’t miss it.</p>
         <p id="p155">Twenty minutes after the concert began, they were still sitting in the bar. Frederik had checked to see if Eik had left the tickets at the gate, but no. And the show was sold out.</p>
         <p id="p156">“Where the hell is he?” Camilla asked. “Did you two have a fight? What’s going on?”</p>
         <p id="p157">Louise sighed and slumped in her chair. “I haven’t heard a word from him since he said he was going to buy cigarettes and walk the dog.” Then she explained what had happened.</p>
         <p id="p158">“So he left Charlie at the convenience market,” Frederik said. “That doesn’t sound at all like him.” He suggested that they drive out to South Harbor to see if he was there.</p>
         <p id="p159">In the car, Louise felt her anxiety rising again throughout her body. She could barely concentrate on what Frederik and Camilla talked about up front.</p>
         <p id="p160">When they reached his South Harbor building, Louise looked up. The apartment was dark.</p>
         <p id="p161">“We still have a key,” Frederik said. “Let’s go up and see.”</p>
         <p id="p162">The hallway smelled surprisingly clean, considering the condition of the stairway up to the fourth floor. Large splotches of paint had peeled off the walls, revealing various colors from over the decades; lightbulbs hung naked from the ceiling on every floor. The mix of odors—industrial soap, cigarettes, smoke from cooking—wasn’t unpleasant. And it not only smelled clean, it looked clean, despite the rundown condition.</p>
         <p id="p163">“It looks worse than it really is,” Camilla said, adding that it had, in fact, been fun living there. More or less everyone knew everyone else. “It’s like they have their own little society here. People stick together and look out for each other, and there aren’t many places like that left.”</p>
         <p id="p164">Louise had been there only a few times, while Eik picked up some of his things. She’d been with him to his favorite watering hole, Ulla’s Place, farther down the street.</p>
         <p id="p165">Frederik knocked on the door when they reached the apartment. They waited. The ceiling lightbulb hummed. They heard a loud click when the light shut off automatically; Camilla walked over and pressed the large brown button to turn it back on. Frederik knocked one last time, while Louise stood on the next-to-last step, her hand on the banister.</p>
         <p id="p166">“We’re going in,” she said, and she reached for the key in Frederik’s hand. She banged on the door and was about to insert the key when the neighbor’s door opened. A young man in scruffy jogging pants and a hoodie, with a cigarette in his hand, asked what they were doing. Then he noticed Frederik and Camilla.</p>
         <p id="p167">“Oh, hi. Did you forget something?”</p>
         <p id="p168">“Hi, Sylvester,” Camilla said. “No, but we can’t find Eik. Have you seen him?” She stayed out in the hall while Frederik and Louise walked inside.</p>
         <p id="p169">It didn’t take long to check the studio apartment. There was an alcove for a bed in the kitchen–living room. There was a small balcony and a bathroom. But there was no Eik.</p>
         <p id="p170">“I don’t think he’s been here,” Frederik said. “It looks exactly how we left it yesterday.”</p>
         <p id="p171">A black two-seat leather sofa hugged the wall; a round dining table with four chairs stood in front of the long window. There was little indication of anyone living there. But then no one did, for the time being.</p>
         <p id="p172">Louise looked around one last time before they walked out and locked the door behind them. The neighbor had retreated to his own apartment, and Camilla was waiting for them outside the building.</p>
         <p id="p173">“Let’s try Ulla,” she said. She tucked her arm under Louise’s. “Did you two have an argument?”</p>
         <p id="p174">“Not really.” Louise shook her head. “This morning we had a talk with Rønholt. One of us has to leave the department, now that we’re living together. But that’s just the way it is, and anyway, I said I should be the one to find another job. It didn’t sound like he was worried about it.”</p>
         <div class="decoration-rw" id="decoration1">
            <p class="center-rw" id="p175">*  *  *</p>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p176">The smoke hit them like a gray brick wall when they opened the door to the little pub. Louise recognized several of the people standing around the billiard table. Ulla stood behind the bar, in front of the wall of liquor bottles, pouring two shots of aquavit. The music was low, possibly Duran Duran; the loudest noise in the pub was the crack of billiard balls ramming each other. Few people were talking. It seemed like some sort of private gathering, almost monotonous, rote, like a theater play that had run too long.</p>
         <p id="p177">“You two want anything?” Frederik asked.</p>
         <p id="p178">Louise said she actually could stand another beer.</p>
         <p id="p179">“I’ll have one, too,” Camilla said. She gazed around in curiosity.</p>
         <p id="p180">Small video-game machines lined the wall behind the billiard table, beyond which hung a jukebox with old hits handwritten on yellowed paper visible through its Plexiglas window. The walls and ceiling were covered with glued-on bottle caps, and tar from years of nonstop smoking. Several of the regulars ogled the three of them.</p>
         <p id="p181">“Was this where he hung out before you met him?” Camilla asked. Frederik handed her the beers and went back to pay.</p>
         <p id="p182">Louise nodded. “He’s good friends with Ulla.” She glanced up at the bar.</p>
         <p id="p183">“Was he sleeping with her?” Camilla eyed the stocky, middle-aged woman with coal-black dyed hair and arched eyebrows. She wore a midnight-blue satin blouse.</p>
         <p id="p184">Louise let that hang in the air. She didn’t really know. She’d avoided digging into what might have gone on between them beyond their friendship, which Eik had never tried to conceal.</p>
         <p id="p185">She waited to see if Ulla would come over, but the pub owner held her spot behind the bar, talking to a drunk who almost fell backward every time he downed a shot.</p>
         <p id="p186">Finally Louise walked up to her. “Hi, Ulla! Have you seen Eik around?”</p>
         <p id="p187">Ulla had glanced over at them, and though Louise knew she’d recognized her, now she gave no indication that they’d ever met. She merely shook her head.</p>
         <p id="p188">Louise paused, but the woman said no more. “I’m a bit worried that something might have happened to him,” she continued. “No one’s seen him since this morning. Do you have any idea where he might be? Have you talked to him today?”</p>
         <p id="p189">“No!” Ulla shook her head again.</p>
         <p id="p190">The group at the billiard table stopped shooting, and a man sitting alone at a table by the door stared at Louise and Ulla while downing his beer.</p>
         <p id="p191">Louise fought off her irritation with the woman. “Would you tell me if you had seen him?”</p>
         <p id="p192">Ulla glanced at her before shrugging her shoulders and turning away. Her animosity toward Louise was palpable. Most likely, she believed that Louise had stolen Eik from her and her pub.</p>
         <p id="p193">Louise walked back to the table. “That was a waste of time.” She was about to pull her coat on when Ulla came over. She avoided eye contact with Louise as she began swiping at their table with a red dishrag.</p>
         <p id="p194">“My advice to you is to leave him be. Don’t hang on to him all the time, give him some room. He doesn’t like to be controlled.”</p>
         <p id="p195">“We’d better go,” Camilla said, when Ulla returned to the high bar.</p>
         <p id="p196">No one around the billiard table made a sound. All eyes followed them when they left without drinking their beers.</p>
      </section>
   </div>
</body>
</html>