<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8"/>
    <title/>
    <link href="css/9781455541072.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:aacd282c-ae7f-4553-9a8d-20a2740bb32e" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
  </head>
  <body>
   <div class="galley-rw">
      <section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="Chapter11">
         <div class="title-block-rw" id="title-block16">
            <p class="title-num-rw" id="title-num11"><a href="TOC.xhtml">10</a></p>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p485"><span class="dropcap-rw">E</span>ik was holding a coffee cup between his hands when they got back to the Nailsea Police Station. Louise noticed that he started to stand up when she came in, but then he thought better of it. His eyes were red and glazed. A thousand thoughts ran through her head, but instead of speaking she laid a hand on his shoulder before leaning over the table for the mug Jones handed her.</p>
         <p id="p486">“When did you get here?” he asked, when she sat down. The two English officers talked about the bank statement sent to Sofie Parker. As Louise understood it, one of the policemen on the case had been assigned to gather information on the foreign bank account.</p>
         <p id="p487">“Around three, and we have a ten thirty flight home to catch.” That wasn’t up for discussion. “We’ve just been out at the house. The husband and daughter arrived while we were there.”</p>
         <p id="p488">Jones and Davies sat down across from Louise and Eik. “Nordstrøm and I have already gone over the preliminaries,” the policewoman said. “I have the information, and I’ve confirmed what Officer Rick explained about Nordstrøm’s job situation.”</p>
         <p id="p489">“But before we go further,” Davies said, “if you would please have a look at the photo of the deceased. Just so we’re sure this<i> is</i> the Danish woman reported missing.”</p>
         <p id="p490">Louise sat up and blocked off all the emotions roiling inside her. She pulled out the photo and laid it on the table in front of Eik.</p>
         <p id="p491">The expression that flashed across his face was almost invisible. He nodded without touching the photo, confirming that this was the Sofie Bygmann he had sailed with in the Mediterranean, the woman he had reported missing after she disappeared from the boat in a harbor town outside Rome.</p>
         <p id="p492">No one spoke for a moment. Louise was worried about how vulnerable he looked, and she couldn’t quite read his expression as he gazed at the photo. It wasn’t sorrow, or shock from her suddenly showing up after so many years. Had that been the case, he would have picked the photo up and studied it closely. Held it in his hands. His face showed more distance, or perhaps closure.</p>
         <p id="p493">“We argued on the boat that morning when she woke me,” Eik began. “Sofie had already gathered all her dirty clothes, and she wanted to find a Laundromat at the harbor. But I felt like walking into town to see the old ruins, so I said why not just rinse our clothes out whenever we needed them.”</p>
         <p id="p494">He leaned back into the hard wooden chair, looking like someone who needed a bath and a cigarette. “So things were a bit tense. I got annoyed and I went into town for a cup of coffee. The two others were still asleep.”</p>
         <p id="p495">“Who were the two others?” Davies asked. He sat at a computer, writing down Eik’s explanation, which was more a window into what had happened back then than an actual witness statement.</p>
         <p id="p496">“Two young guys: Christopher and Mark. They owned the boat. Or actually, it was Christopher’s father who owned it, but they were sailing around on vacation that summer. We met them on Corsica, we had a fun evening together. They had some weed, we smoked some, and then they let us come along. They were on their way to Italy, then south to Capri, where someone had a house they were going to stay in.”</p>
         <p id="p497">“Were they the ones who drowned?” Louise asked. Eik nodded.</p>
         <p id="p498">“Did anyone find out exactly what happened?” Jones asked. “There’s nothing about it in Sofie Bygmann’s search report.”</p>
         <p id="p499">Eik shook his head. “There are lots of theories. The craziest one was that it was a hate crime because they were gay. When the boat was found drifting around outside the harbor, the bodies were only a few meters away. The police found evidence that someone tried to steal the boat, but the ignition had some sort of thief protection and they couldn’t start the motor. So maybe they just gave up. Or they were surprised by Christopher and Mark; there could have been a fight. They could have been assaulted while they were asleep; the killers could have stolen stuff from them and tossed them overboard. The police never found out what happened.”</p>
         <p id="p500">He slumped a bit. “When I heard about it, I was thinking mostly that Sofie’s things weren’t found on the boat, and I was afraid she’d disappeared with the criminals. Either of her own free will or by force. But she could have drowned and floated away from the others. I never understood why her things were gone.”</p>
         <p id="p501">“Was that the last time you saw her, when you left the boat that morning?” Jones asked.</p>
         <p id="p502">Eik shook his head. “I went into town and drank a coffee and cooled down. I started talking to some kids sitting at a fountain playing music. One of them had a guitar. It looked like they’d been there all night. We smoked a joint, and then Sofie showed up, and I asked her to join us. But she was still looking for a Laundromat, the one at the harbor was closed. She had a shopping list, too.”</p>
         <p id="p503">It pained Louise to hear that what had happened so many years ago stood so fresh in his memory.</p>
         <p id="p504">“She kept on about all the practical stuff we had to get done, and that irritated me even more. The weather was fantastic, we were having a great time, and I still wanted to see those ruins. Mark had been there; he said it was something you had to see, and Sofie had agreed right up until then, but suddenly there wasn’t enough time, she wanted to wash clothes and do the shopping.”</p>
         <p id="p505">He paused a second as if to calm himself down. “I didn’t want to listen to her anymore, so I stuck around there. But when I got back to the harbor a few hours later the boat was gone. With my backpack and all my clothes. I had my wallet and passport on me, but everything else was gone.”</p>
         <p id="p506">He looked over at Jones. “I was so mad that I decided to hitchhike to Rome. I got drunk, then I went back the next day. I thought they’d come back for me.”</p>
         <p id="p507">He stared down at the table. Louise sat bolt upright; he hadn’t looked at her once while speaking.</p>
         <p id="p508">“But they didn’t,” he said. “Maybe she grabbed her things and left, too. I just don’t know! My backpack was still on board when they found the boat. That’s why the police contacted me.”</p>
         <p id="p509">“So that’s the last time you saw her?” Davies asked from over at the computer.</p>
         <p id="p510">Eik nodded. “I thought of every possibility. She drowned, she was kidnapped and sold. She was with whoever tried to steal the boat. Or Mark and Christopher tried to defend her from whoever killed them. At one point, I thought I was going crazy from thinking. And now, eighteen years later, out of the blue I get a call from you.”</p>
         <p id="p511">He looked back at the policewoman. “And you tell me she’s dead.” He ran his hand through his dark, shiny hair. “She’s been living here all these years, while I spent so much time thinking about what happened back then.”</p>
         <p id="p512">The silence was heavy. Louise was torn between her role as Eik’s boss and colleague, and a chilling fear that this would come between them. That she would lose him. Part of her felt sorry for him, part of her was angry, but also, in a way, she was relieved that he finally had his answer.</p>
         <p id="p513">“When did you arrive here at Nailsea?” Davies said. The unhappy love story didn’t seem to have affected him. “Try to be as accurate as possible with the times.”</p>
         <p id="p514">Eik turned in his chair to face the officer behind the computer screen. “I landed at two ten p.m. and took a taxi from the airport. I have my plane ticket, you can look at it.” His fingers still held the coffee cup, even though it was empty. “Maybe your people were home for afternoon tea, I don’t know, but no one was at the house when I arrived. It wasn’t hard to find, there were barriers everywhere, and I knew the name of the town from when I was called.”</p>
         <p id="p515">“But you haven’t been there before?” Davies asked.</p>
         <p id="p516">Eik shook his head. His eyes cleared a bit. “No. I haven’t been there before. I don’t know what I expected or hoped for. But I wanted to talk to somebody. To her family. I knew her husband was in the house when she was shot.”</p>
         <p id="p517">“And how did you know she had been shot?” Davies hurried to ask.</p>
         <p id="p518">“I was told on the phone.” His voice was firmer now. “I decided to wait. I walked up to the pub and had a few beers. Well, probably more than a few. Everyone in the bar was talking about what had happened, of course. People seemed to know the optician’s wife came from someplace in Scandinavia.”</p>
         <p id="p519"><i>You could have called, damn it</i>, Louise thought. He’d spent all afternoon and evening killing time while she had been worried out of her mind.</p>
         <p id="p520">“I drank beer and listened to the gossip. And at some point, I walked back to the house and rang the doorbell. Or maybe I knocked on the door.”</p>
         <p id="p521">“The neighbors described it as pounding on the door and shouting,” Jones said.</p>
         <p id="p522">Eik nodded. “That’s probably right. I wanted inside. I wanted to know what kind of life she’d been hiding from me!”</p>
         <p id="p523"><i>Strange</i>, Louise thought. <i>Why wouldn’t you rather know why someone put a bullet through her forehead?</i></p>
         <p id="p524">Louise looked at the clock and apologized, saying they had to leave soon for the airport.</p>
         <p id="p525">“As we’ve mentioned,” Sheila Jones said, “we are very interested in knowing about Sofie Parker’s past in Denmark. Is this something your department can assist us with, or did the investigation take place somewhere else?”</p>
         <p id="p526">“The search was ours, so the case is in our department.” Louise handed Sheila her card. “We want to help, but, of course, I have to talk to my boss first. You can contact me at those numbers and that email address.”</p>
         <div class="decoration-rw" id="decoration3">
            <p class="center-rw" id="p527">*  *  *</p>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p528">They drove ten minutes without speaking before Louise exploded. “What in the fucking hell did you think you were doing? Did you even think?” The young policeman driving them to the airport shifted a bit in his seat up front. “Are you out of your mind, or what?”</p>
         <p id="p529">“I’m sorry,” he said. He started to lay his hand on top of hers, but Louise pulled it away viciously.</p>
         <p id="p530">“I’ve been out at your parents’. Rønholt and I moved heaven and earth to find you. What could you have been thinking? You left Charlie out on the street!”</p>
         <p id="p531">“Is he okay?”</p>
         <p id="p532">“Yes, no thanks to you! It was pure luck I noticed him outside the market, where he’d been sitting for hours.”</p>
         <p id="p533">Eik’s hands were folded in his lap. After a moment he asked, “What was in the house out there? You said the family was home.”</p>
         <p id="p534">“They came.” Louise stared out into the darkness covering the landscape, at the narrow, winding roads and tall trees captured by the car’s headlights.</p>
         <p id="p535">“How was the daughter doing?”</p>
         <p id="p536">Louise shrugged without answering. She leaned her head back.</p>
         <p id="p537">The silence between them screamed, the mood so heavy that she literally felt she was being squashed down in her seat.</p>
         <p id="p538">He tried again in the plane after takeoff. “The husband didn’t see anything before the shot?”</p>
         <p id="p539">“It was getting dark out. It’s possible that Stephanie caught a glimpse of the killer, but the police got nothing out of her from the first interview. Now they’re trying again.”</p>
         <p id="p540">“Stephanie?” he asked.</p>
         <p id="p541">“The daughter, but she wants to be called Steph.”</p>
         <p id="p542">“What do you think of her?”</p>
         <p id="p543">Louise exploded. “Were you even going to call?”</p>
         <p id="p544">“What do you mean?”</p>
         <p id="p545">“Were you even going to call me? Did you bother thinking for a single second that I was worried to death about you?”</p>
         <p id="p546">Silence.</p>
         <p id="p547">“Eik, what the hell’s going on?”</p>
         <p id="p548">“I’m sorry,” he said again.</p>
         <p id="p549">Louise said nothing, though she wanted to shake him, hold him, comfort him, and curse him out. Leave him. Stay.</p>
         <p id="p550">“How much do the police know?” he asked. “Did something happen before the murder? Disagreements? Threats?”</p>
         <p id="p551">“Stop it!”</p>
         <p id="p552">“Was the family being harassed? What do the police have to go on? Come on, bring me up to date, we have a case here.”</p>
         <p id="p553">“Let me spell this out for you,” Louise snarled as she turned to him. “<i>We </i>don’t have a case.<i> I</i> have a case, and you are not a part of it. Got that?”</p>
         <p id="p554">He was about to say something, but he sat quietly. Neither one of them spoke during the rest of the flight. Nor did they speak in the taxi to Frederiksberg.</p>
         <p id="p555">Louise was still enraged. Not one single time had he even tried to explain. All she’d gotten was a pathetic “I’m sorry.” But she couldn’t care less about an apology. She wanted to know how he could do what he did, abandon her like that. Abandon Charlie. She had a right to more than a puny apology, but when she asked for an explanation, it was almost as if he wasn’t listening.</p>
         <p id="p556">“Talk to me, damn you!” she screamed, after fetching Dina and Charlie down at Melvin’s and reassuring him that Eik was home again. “What’s going on? I don’t know, are you living with me or are you moving out? What have you decided? And what the hell is it with that basement room at Rønholt’s building. I don’t even know you!”</p>
         <p id="p557">He spread his arms out in despair. “I’ll walk the dogs.”</p>
         <p id="p558">Louise was about to ask if he was planning on coming back, or if she maybe ought to go out and start looking for him after an hour or so. Instead she started packing his things.</p>
         <p id="p559">In the bathroom, she tossed his deodorant, toothbrush, and shaving supplies in a sack. She packed his clothes from the bedroom shelves she’d cleared for him. She stuffed everything into plastic bags. While she worked, she realized it wasn’t Eik’s dropping everything to go to his old girlfriend that hurt her most. She could understand that, even though he should have let her know what was going on. She had been through something similar herself. Shadows from the past can appear that need to be dealt with before you can move on. She also recognized that he’d been living with uncertainty for many years. Of course he would react.</p>
         <p id="p560">But she wouldn’t accept his silence and distance, when she was trying to understand and to show she was there for him. Instead of explaining, he turned away. Without a word.</p>
         <div class="decoration-rw" id="decoration4">
            <p class="center-rw" id="p561">*  *  *</p>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p562">After piling all his things in the hallway, she stood in the entryway with her forehead against the wall, overcome by a sadness almost too intense to handle.</p>
         <p id="p563">Everything had been going so very well, and now this.</p>
         <p id="p564">When his footsteps stopped outside, she opened the door and took Dina’s leash out of his hand. She nodded at the bags and said it was best for everyone that he go back to his South Harbor place to sleep.</p>
         <p id="p565">Eik looked at her dejectedly and nodded back. He grabbed the bags and herded Charlie back down the steps. “See you tomorrow,” he said. He glanced back at her through the balusters of the banister. “It made me happy when I heard you’d come over there.”</p>
         <p id="p566">Louise stood listening to his footsteps for a moment as they disappeared down the stairway. Then she closed the door and went inside to call Camilla to tell her they’d found Eik and she’d thrown him out. She needed to cry. To be angry and dejected.</p>
      </section>
   </div>
</body>
</html>