<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8"/>
    <title/>
    <link href="css/9781455541072.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:aacd282c-ae7f-4553-9a8d-20a2740bb32e" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
  </head>
  <body>
   <div class="galley-rw">
      <section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="Chapter13">
         <div class="title-block-rw" id="title-block18">
            <p class="title-num-rw" id="title-num13"><a href="TOC.xhtml">12</a></p>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p588"><span class="dropcap-rw">C</span>ome on, for Chrissake!” Camilla Lind leaned over the table in the editorial conference room. “It’s a damn good story when a Danish woman disappears for eighteen years and suddenly shows up dead in England—murdered, and the police have absolutely no motive for the killing.”</p>
         <p id="p589">She ignored everyone around the table except Terkel Høyer, but the editor in chief didn’t look convinced. “Let’s put a hold on this,” he said. “Because they <i>don’t</i> have a clue as to motive, we can’t know if the killing has anything to do with her past here in Denmark.”</p>
         <p id="p590">“No!” Camilla said. “But aren’t you curious? Don’t you want to know who she was, what she’s been doing all these years, all this time when her loved ones thought she’d drowned?”</p>
         <p id="p591">Ole Kvist, a seasoned crime reporter for <i>Morgenavisen</i>, finally woke up. “I could fly over there. I could try to interview the husband and daughter.” No doubt he was eyeing the possibility of a few days in southern England, all expenses paid.</p>
         <p id="p592">Camilla sighed. “We already know all that, damn it. You’ve already stolen it from the English newspapers. Focus on the woman, not the case, that story is history.”</p>
         <p id="p593">The first thing she had noticed when she returned to the paper was that not much had changed in the years she’d been gone. She wanted to do personal stories. Kvist wanted to travel and have the paper foot the bill. Only Jakob, who had been a trainee back then, showed the drive she’d had when she began as a reporter in Roskilde. But he was covering gang warfare, so he had more than enough to do.</p>
         <p id="p594">“The police raided Christiania again last night,” he said, when it was his turn to report. “Hashish, cash, gold bars. The value of what they confiscated is being totaled up this morning, and I’m in contact with the special operations leader.”</p>
         <p id="p595">Camilla leaned back and listened as Kvist spoke with renewed energy about flying to Bristol and seeing what he could dig up. She shook her head when Høyer told him to take it up with the international editor; they might have a man free in London, and it would be cheaper to send him out.</p>
         <p id="p596">“The flight isn’t over five hundred eighty-five kroners, round-trip,” Kvist said. “That’s less than a train ticket from London.”</p>
         <p id="p597">“Maybe.” Høyer didn’t even bother to look up. “But he wouldn’t have extra travel expenses on Crime’s budget.”</p>
         <p id="p598">Camilla left as soon as the meeting broke up. She was standing outside Høyer’s office when he came down the hallway. “It’s a damn good story for Sunday, a feature on the Danish woman,” she said, before he reached the door. “We need to get over to Jutland, see where she comes from, find out who she was, why she disappeared. Find out what happened. Did you know she was married to a pastor before she disappeared?”</p>
         <p id="p599">Høyer sat down and pointed to the chair across his desk. “I don’t have the staff to do this type of story anymore. You know that, even though you’ve been gone. We’re battling the online edition all the time; I have to deliver to justify our existence. This type of background story takes up resources I don’t even have.”</p>
         <p id="p600">“That may be. But you’ll lose ground if you give up the good stories.”</p>
         <p id="p601">“They take too much time.”</p>
         <p id="p602">“Then I’ll do it myself,” she said. “I’ll do it on the weekend.”</p>
         <p id="p603">Høyer shook his head, though with a hint of a smile. “As long as you know I can’t give you travel expenses; no meals or anything.” He was back to looking like a man under pressure.</p>
         <p id="p604">“All expenses are on me.” Ironic, she added, that since she was no longer a freelance journalist, now that she was an actual employee, he, of course, wouldn’t have to pay for the articles she delivered.</p>
         <p id="p605">Camilla left the office feeling she had prostituted herself. But she simply couldn’t let go of the story. And it was possible that her determination came from wanting to satisfy her own curiosity. On the other hand, she probably wasn’t the only one interested in uncovering the woman’s background. But she’d said nothing about the inside source she might be able to use if the background story was too thin.</p>
         <p id="p606">On her way back to the office, she felt the old familiar tug of excitement. She was going out in the field, and she was so excited about the story that she caught herself smiling, despite having two articles by Kvist to edit and an email to answer from a freelancer in southern Zealand who was in an uproar because she’d changed the headline of his article. “Pushers Have Captured Lolland,” he had called it, and an irritated Camilla wrote that the damn pushers have always been there, that he had to come up with something better. Now he was sore, and she had to smooth things over. But <i>Morgenavisen</i> wasn’t going to be ridiculed for seemingly believing that hashish had first showed up in the Danish South Sea islands in 2014.</p>
      </section>
   </div>
</body>
</html>