<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8"/>
    <title/>
    <link href="css/9781455541072.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:aacd282c-ae7f-4553-9a8d-20a2740bb32e" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
  </head>
  <body>
   <div class="galley-rw">
      <section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="Chapter33">
         <div class="title-block-rw" id="title-block38">
            <p class="title-num-rw" id="title-num33"><a href="TOC.xhtml">Epilogue</a></p>
         </div>
         <p class="firstpara-rw" id="p2027"><span class="dropcap-rw">I</span>ncredible how bad they’re screwing us,” Eik said, after they’d been dumped off in front of their small hotel in Tulum. He dug another cigarette out of his jacket pocket. Back at the airport, Louise had asked for a taxi large enough for all their luggage, but she was told they should have ordered one in advance. It was either take two taxis or go back to the end of the line.</p>
         <p id="p2028">Eik lit a cigarette and stood for a moment, breathing in the hot air, while Louise laughed and asked who had suggested Mexico as their first stop.</p>
         <p id="p2029">“Your son, Jonas,” he said. “He’s the one who wanted to see the Mayan ruins, and you heard how convincing he was.”</p>
         <p id="p2030">She nodded. He was absolutely right. Jonas was interested in history, and immediately he had named the Mayans when they sat down to make a list of what they wanted to see.</p>
         <p id="p2031">She thought fondly of Camilla, who had sat her down before she accepted the job as head of Homicide. “Are you really sure you’re making the right decision, letting Eik and Steph travel without you two?” she’d asked. “Why don’t you go with them?”</p>
         <p id="p2032">The wind took hold of Louise’s hair, and she smiled as she thought back to when she closed the door to Suhr’s office and gave him her ultimatum. She would, of course, keep her word; she still wanted the job. But only if he agreed to stay six months longer. Otherwise, unfortunately, she would have to say no. In which case he risked having to stay even longer; he and the police leadership would have to find another successor who might have to give notice to his or her employer. He mulled that over before agreeing to her condition.</p>
         <p id="p2033">Their trip had been delayed by Nigel Parker. Not that he had anything against his stepdaughter moving to Denmark to live with her biological father. In fact, he thought it was an excellent idea. He had been honest with himself and realized it wouldn’t work between the two of them without Sofie as a buffer. But he had dug his heels in when Eik asked him to pack Steph’s things and send them to Denmark. He really had no time to do that, now that his wife wasn’t around to help him in the vision center and office. And besides, he wasn’t especially eager to help Eik after the fraught confrontations they’d had.</p>
         <p id="p2034">Steph and Eik had returned to Nailsea to pack, and while there she chose what she wanted of her mother’s belongings. Only after everything had been sent off to Denmark did Steph react. All the shock was gone, and she’d cried because she missed her mother. Because of her murder and the shock, because she had lost the only person in the world she’d ever felt connected to.</p>
         <p id="p2035">She and Eik had moved into the South Harbor place, but even though he and Louise lived separately, they almost always ate together. Either there or at Louise’s apartment. And slowly Steph began to come to terms with her life. Eik let her move things along at her own pace. But it wasn’t just for Steph’s sake, Louise came to realize. It was just who he was.</p>
         <p id="p2036">“Why don’t we find a bar and have a cold Corona before we check in?” Eik began pulling Louise toward the small bar on the beach. She felt sweaty all over after the flight and the almost-two-hour taxi ride, and she needed a dip in the ocean badly, but she nodded when Eik asked if they should order two plates of nachos as well.</p>
         <p id="p2037">Steph had taken off her leather jacket and heavy Dr. Martens, and she surrendered to the Mexican sun. She was still healing from the shooting, but after determining her inner organs hadn’t been damaged, the doctors had been most concerned about a concussion. She’d taken a heavy blow to the temple, and she’d had a blinding headache and blurred vision in the days following the events in the forest. There’d even been talk of a skull fracture. Fortunately it wasn’t that bad, but she’d still had to be checked at the hospital right before they left.</p>
         <p id="p2038">Jonas stood at the water’s edge with his pants rolled up. He and Steph began checking out some rock formations several meters high, from which two young boys dove into the ocean. Louise’s stomach knotted, but she lay out on an old, peeling beach chair anyway. She leaned back after Eik stuck a beer in her hand and pulled her close to him.</p>
         <p id="p2039">The waves broke against the jutting cliffs; white foam spouted high into the air as she pressed the slice of lime stuck in the bottle down into the beer.</p>
         <p id="p2040">She breathed in the smell of the ocean. Lime. Corona. And Eik.</p>
      </section>
   </div>
</body>
</html>