<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title></title>
  <link href="../Styles/Style0002.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body style="margin-left:30%">
  <p class="yan">The bodies of the ship’s crew are inspired, and the ship moves on;</p>

  <p>The loud wind never reached the ship,</p>

  <p>Yet now the ship moved on!</p>

  <p>Beneath the lightning and the Moon</p>

  <p>The dead men gave a groan.</p>

  <div>
    <br />
  </div>

  <p>They groaned, they stirred, they all uprose,</p>

  <p>Nor spake, nor moved their eyes;</p>

  <p>It had been strange, even in a dream,</p>

  <p>To have seen those dead men rise.</p>

  <div>
    <br />
  </div>

  <p>The helmsman steered, the ship moved on;</p>

  <p>Yet never a breeze up blew;</p>

  <p>The mariners all ‘gan work the ropes,</p>

  <p>Where they were wont to do:</p>

  <p>They raised their limbs like lifeless tools -</p>

  <p>We were a ghastly crew.</p>

  <div>
    <br />
  </div>

  <p class="yan">But not by the souls of the men, nor by demons of earth or middle air, but by a blessed troop of angelic spirits, sent down by the invocation of the guardian saint.</p>

  <p>The body of my brother’s son,</p>

  <p>Stood by me, knee to knee:</p>

  <p>The body and I pulled at one rope,</p>

  <p>But he said nought to me.</p>

  <div>
    <br />
  </div>

  <p>“I fear thee, ancient Mariner!”</p>

  <p>“Be calm, thou Wedding-Guest!</p>

  <p>‘Twas not those souls that fled in pain,</p>

  <p>Which to their corses came again,</p>

  <p>But a troop of spirits blest:</p>

  <div>
    <br />
  </div>

  <p>For when it dawned - they dropped their arms,</p>

  <p>And clustered round the mast;</p>

  <p>Sweet sounds rose slowly through their mouths,</p>

  <p>And from their bodies passed.</p>
</body>
</html>
