<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title></title>
  <link href="../Styles/Style0002.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body style="margin-left:30%">
  <p class="yan">It seemeth him but the skeleton of a ship.</p>

  <p>And straight the Sun was flecked with bars,</p>

  <p>(Heaven’s Mother send us grace!)</p>

  <p>As if through a dungeon-grate he peered,</p>

  <p>With broad and burning face.</p>

  <div>
    <div>
      <br />
    </div>
  </div>

  <p>Alas! (thought I, and my heart beat loud)</p>

  <p>How fast she nears and nears!</p>

  <p>Are those her sails that glance in the Sun,</p>

  <p>Like restless gossameres!</p>

  <div>
    <div>
      <br />
    </div>

    <div>
      <br />
    </div>

    <div>
      <br />
    </div>
  </div>

  <p class="yan">And Us ribs are seen bars on the face of the setting Sun. The Spectre-Woman and her Deathmate, and no other on board the skeleton ship.</p>

  <p>Are those <span style="font-style:italic;">her</span> ribs through which the Sun</p>

  <p>Did peer, as through a grate?</p>

  <p>And is that Woman all her crew?</p>

  <p>Is that a DEATH? and are there two?</p>

  <p>Is DEATH that woman’s mate?</p>

  <div>
    <br />
  </div>

  <p>Her lips were red, her looks were free,</p>

  <p>Her locks were yellow as gold:</p>

  <p class="yan">Like vessel, like crew!</p>

  <p>Her skin was as white as leprosy,</p>

  <p>The Night-Mare LIFE-IN-DEATH was she,</p>

  <p>Who thicks man’s blood with cold.</p>

  <div>
    <br />
  </div>

  <p class="yan">Death and Life-in-Death have diced for the ship’s crew, and she (the latter) winneth the ancient Mariner.</p>

  <p>The naked hulk alongside came,</p>

  <p>And the twain were casting dice;</p>

  <p>‘The game is done! I’ve won! I’ve won!’</p>

  <p>Quoth she, and whistles thrice.</p>
</body>
</html>
