<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title></title>
</head>

<body>
  <p><a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN1" id="dn1">1</a> Majma'at al-Rasail ( Majid Fakhry, A History of Islamic Philosophy) (New York ve Londra, 1970), s. 351. .</p>

  <p><a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN2" id="dn2">2</a> Marshall G.S. Hodgson, The Venture of İslam,, Conscience and History in a World Civilisation 3 c. (Şikago, 1974), II., s. 334-360.</p>

  <p><a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN3" id="dn3">3</a> Kitab al hikmat al-arsbiya, Henri Corbin, Spiritual Body and Celestial Earth, From Mazdean Iran to Shiite Iran, çev. Nancy Pearson, (Londra, 1990), s. 166'dan alıntı.</p>

  <p><a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN4" id="dn4">4</a> M.S. Raschid, Concept of God (Londra, 1981), s. 1034'den alıntı.</p>

  <p><a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN5" id="dn5">5</a> Gershom Scholem, Major Trends in Jewish Mysticism, 2. basım (Londra, 1955), s. 253'den alıntı.</p>

  <p><a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN6" id="dn6">6</a> A.g.e., s. 271; Luriancı Kabbala için ayrıca bkz. Scholem, The Messianic Idea in Judiasm and Other Essays in Jewish Spirituality (New York, 1971), s. 43-48; RJ. Zwi Weblosky, "The Safed Revival and its Aftermath', Arthur Green yay., Jewsh Spirituality, 2 c. (Londra, 1986, 1988), II; Jacob Kats, 'Halakah and Kabbalah as Competing Disciplines of Study', a.g.e:'de; Laurence Fine, 'The Contemplative Practice of Yahudim in Lurianic Kabbalah', a.g.e.'de; Louis Jacobs, 'The Uplifting of the Sparks in later Jewish Mysticism', a.g.e.'de.</p>

  <p><a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN7" id="dn7">7</a> The Mountain of Contemplation, 4.</p>

  <p><a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN8" id="dn8">8</a> Thomas a Kempis, The Imitation of Christ, çev. Leo Sherley Poole (Harmondsworth, 1953), I, i., s. 27.</p>

  <p><a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN9" id="dn9">9</a> Richard Kieckhafer, 'Major Currents in Late Medieval Devotion', yay.Jill Raitt, Christian Spirituality: High MiddleAges and Reformation (NewYork ve Londra), 1989, s. 87'de.</p>

  <p><a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN10" id="dn10">10</a> Julian of Norwich, Revelations of Divine love, çev. Clifton Wolters (Londra, 1981), 15, s. 87-8.</p>

  <p><a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN11" id="dn11">11</a> Enconium Sancti Tomae Aqunatias, William J. Bouwsme, The Spirituality of Renaissance Humanism', Raitt, Christian Spiritulaity, s. 244'de.</p>

  <p><a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN12" id="DN12">12</a> Kardeşi Gherado'ya mektup 2 Aralık 1348, yay. David Thompson, Petrarch, a Hümanist among Princes: An Ahthology of Petrarch's letters and Translations from His Works (New York, 1971), s. 90'da.</p>

  <p><a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN13" id="dn13">13</a> Charles Trinkaus, the Poet as Philosopher Petrarch and the Formation of Renaissance Consciousness(New Haven, 1979), s. 87'den alıntı.<br /></p>

  <p><a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN14" id="dn14">14</a> Of Learned Ignorance, 1.22.</p>

  <p><a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN15" id="dn15">15</a> On Possibility and Being in God, 17.5.</p>

  <div>
    <a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN16" id="dn16">16</a> Norman Cohn, Europe’s Inner Denrors (Londra, 1976).<br />
  </div>

  <div>
    <br />
  </div>

  <div>
    <a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN17" id="dn17">17</a> Alister E. Mc Grath, Reformation Though, An Introduction (Oxford ve New York, 1988), s. 73.<br />
  </div>

  <div>
    <br />
  </div>

  <div>
    <div>
      <a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN18" id="dn18">18</a> Commentary on Psalm 90.3.
    </div>

    <div>
      <br />
    </div>

    <div>
      <a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN19" id="dn19">19</a> Commentary on Galatians 3.19.
    </div>
  </div>

  <div>
    <br />
  </div>

  <div>
    <a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN20" id="dn20">20</a> McGralh, Reformation Thought, s. 74'den alıntı.<br />
  </div>

  <div>
    <br />
  </div>

  <div>
    <div>
      <a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN21" id="dn21">21</a> I Korintlilere 1.25.
    </div>

    <div>
      <br />
    </div>

    <div>
      <a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN22" id="dn22">22</a> Heidelberg Disputation, 21.
    </div>

    <div>
      <br />
    </div>

    <div>
      <a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN23" id="dn23">23</a> A.g.e., s. 19-20.
    </div>

    <div>
      <br />
    </div>

    <div>
      <a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN24" id="dn24">24</a> A.g.e.
    </div>

    <div>
      <br />
    </div>

    <div>
      <a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN25" id="dn25">25</a> Jaroslav Pelikan, the Christian Tradition, A History of the Development of Dogma, 5 c., IV., Reformation of Church and Dogma(Şikago ve Londra, 1984), s.156.
    </div>
  </div>

  <div>
    <br />
  </div>

  <div>
    <div>
      <a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN26" id="dn26">26</a> Commentary on Galatians2.16.
    </div>

    <div>
      <br />
    </div>

    <div>
      <a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN27" id="dn27">27</a> Ethical Orations 5.
    </div>

    <div>
      <br />
    </div>
  </div>

  <div>
    <a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN28" id="dn28">28</a> Small Catechism 2.4, Pelikan, Reformation of Church, s. 161'den alıntı <br />
  </div>

  <div>
    <br />
  </div>

  <div>
    <a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN29" id="dn29">29</a> Alastair E. McGrath, A Life of John Calvin, A Study in the Shaping of Westen Church (Oxford, 1990), s. 7.<br />
  </div>

  <div>
    <br />
  </div>

  <div>
    <a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN30" id="dn30">30</a> McGrath, a.g.e., s. 251 'den alıntı.<br />
  </div>

  <div>
    <br />
  </div>

  <div>
    <div>
      <a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN31" id="dn31">31</a> Institutes of the Christian Church, 1, xiii, 2.
    </div>

    <div>
      <br />
    </div>

    <div>
      <a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN32" id="dn32">32</a> Pelikan, Reformation of Church, s. 327'den alıntı.
    </div>

    <div>
      <br />
    </div>

    <div>
      <a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN33" id="dn33">33</a> Zinzendorf, a.g.e., s. 326'dan alıntı.
    </div>

    <div>
      <br />
    </div>
  </div>

  <div>
    <a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN34" id="dn34">34</a> McGrath, Reformation Thought, s. 87'den alıntı.<br />
  </div>

  <div>
    <br />
  </div>

  <div>
    <a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN35" id="dn35">35</a> McGrath, A Life of Calvin, s. 90.<br />
  </div>

  <div>
    <br />
  </div>

  <div>
    <div>
      <a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN36" id="dn36">36</a> William James, the Varieties of Religous .Experience, yay. Martine E. Mrry (New York ve Harmondsworth), 1982, s. 127-85.
    </div>

    <div>
      <br />
    </div>

    <div>
      <a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN37" id="dn37">37</a> John Bossy, Christianity in the West 1400-1700 (Oxford ve New York, 1985), s. 96.
    </div>

    <div>
      <br />
    </div>
  </div>

  <div>
    <a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN38" id="DN38">38</a> McGrath, A Life of Calvin, s. 209-245.<br />
  </div>

  <div>
    <br />
  </div>

  <div>
    <a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN39" id="dn39">39</a> RC. Lovelace, 'Puritan Spirituality: the Search for a Rightly Reformed Church', yay. Louis Dupre ve Don. E. Saliers, Christian Spirituality: Post Information and Modern(NewYork ve Londra, 1989), s. 313'de.<br />
  </div>

  <div>
    <br />
  </div>

  <div>
    <a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN40" id="dn40">40</a> The Spiritual Exercises 230.<br />
  </div>

  <div>
    <br />
  </div>

  <div>
    <a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN41" id="dn41">41</a> Hugo Rahner SJ, Ignatius the Theologia, çev. Michael Barry (Londra, 1968), s. 23.<br />
  </div>

  <div>
    <br />
  </div>

  <div>
    <a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN42" id="dn42">42</a> Pelikan, the Christian Doctrine and Modern Culture Since 1700 (Şikago ve Londra, 1989), s. 39.<br />
  </div>

  <div>
    <br />
  </div>

  <div>
    <div>
      <a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN43" id="dn43">43</a> Lucien Febvre, The Problem of Unbelief in the Sixteenth Century, the Religion of Rabelais, çev. Beatrice Gottlieb (Cambridge Mass. ve Londra, 1982), s. 351.
    </div>

    <div>
      <br />
    </div>

    <div>
      <a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN44" id="dn44">44</a> Ag.e., s. 35-56.
    </div>

    <div>
      <br />
    </div>
  </div>

  <div>
    <a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN45" id="dn45">45</a> J.C Davis, Fear, Myth and History, the Ranters and the Historians (Cambridge, 1986), s. 114.<br />
  </div>

  <div>
    <br />
  </div>

  <div>
    <a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN46" id="dn46">46</a> McGrath, A Life of Calvin, s. 131.
  </div>

  <div>
    <br />
  </div>

  <div>
    <a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BNY1" id="dny1">*1</a> Cause celebrâ (Fransızca): ünlenmiş dava, çekişme. [ç.n.] 
  </div>

  <div>
    <br />
  </div>

  <div>
    <a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN47" id="dn47">47</a> Robert S. Westman, the Copernicus and the Churches, yay. David C. Lindberg ve Ronald E. Numbers, God and Nature; Historical Essays in the Encounters Between Christinalty and Science (Berkeley, Los Angeles ve Londra), 1986, s. 87.
  </div>

  <div>
    <br />
  </div>

  <div>
    <a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN48" id="dn48">48</a> Mezmurlar 93:1; Hakimler 1:5; Mezmurlar 104:19<br />
  </div>

  <div>
    <br />
  </div>

  <div>
    <a href="../Text/Section0012.xhtml#BN49" id="dn49">49</a> William R Shea, 'Galileo and the Curch', yay. Lindberg ve Numbers, God and Nature, s. 125'de.<br />
  </div>

  <div>
    <br />
  </div>

  <div>
    <br />
  </div>

  <p> </p>
</body>
</html>
